Instead of the simple contrast ti -
lity of the
Ź
tu the experimenter can estimate any linear function
treatment effects, provided Σ4;= 0 (i.e., provided it is a contrast). The best estimate of such a contrast
is known to be estimable by substituting in the linear function any set of least squares estimates of the
treatment effects. Now we have utilized the restriction t = 0 in obtaining the least squares estimates
of the treatment effects so that the best estimate of t is
(3.17)
ti
i₁ = i₁
--
ti,
which is clearly a contrast. If one treatment should stand out above all the others or if the D(2) design is
used for factorial designs so that t represents a treatment combination, then the experimenter may want
to estimate a treatment effect ti by use of îi and for this estimate he may desire to have available the ex-
pression for the variance of the estimate t. Using the method of Bradley, Walpole, and Kramer (1960), it
can be shown that the general formula for the variance of an intra-block treatment estimate is
(3.18a)
-
V(îi)
=
nı (k − c₁) + n2(k − C2)
vr (k-1)
σ2
where c₁ and c₂ can be obtained from (3.5) and (3.6) respectively (and are tabled along with the plans for
all designs given in this volume).
It is often of interest to estimate the treatment means, ti+g. The variances of these quantities are
(3.18b)
Var (î¡+g) = Var (î) + Var (g) = Var (î;) + —
where Var (î) is defined in (3.18).
υτ
The variance o² appearing in the above equations is generally unknown, so that it is customary to
estimate the variances V(ti-tu), V(t), and V(+) by substituting for σ the mean square for error
from the analysis of variance table appropriate to the model being used.
2.1.1. Model 1: ungrouped blocks. For the intra-block or fixed effects model with ungrouped blocks
the observation yij is conceived of as the sum of four additive components.
(3.19)
Yij=g+ti+bj +Єij,
wherein g is an overall mean, t is the (differential) effect of the ith treatment, b; is the (differential) effect
of the jth block and € is a random component distributed N(0, σ²). The v+b+1 quantities g, t₁(i=1, 2,
· 9
v) and b; (j=1, 2, . . ., b) are fixed but unknown constants. We further assume that the Єij are
stochastically independent of each other and of the fixed effects.
The intra-block analysis of variance for model 1 is given in Table 1.
The F-test is carried out in the usual way with degrees of freedom v-1 and N-b-v+1. To test the
significance of the estimated difference between the effects of the ith and uth treatments which are jth
associates we use the t-statistic,
(3.20)
t=
(îì—îu)√r(k−1)
Se V2(k-cj)
where s is the mean square for error in the above table and the degrees of freedom for t are the same as
that on which s is based.
-
For estimation purposes differences between two estimates calculated from (3.10), îi — îu, i ‡ u, and
30
