The reader is then informed that for k=4, v=10, r=2 there is only one design, designated T28, available;
for r=4 he can choose among three designs, one singular GD and two triangular designs; for r=6 there is
only the triangular design T30 available; but for r=8 and 10, there are five choices each, as indicated above.
The user is then led to one or more tables among Tables IV through XIX depending upon his choices.
Table I. Glossary and Notation. This table explains the concisely presented information in the tables.
Abbreviations and symbols are explained, as are technical terms. Terminology not explained in the intro-
ductory chapters is generally found here.
Table II. Association Schemes for Catalogued Designs. The association schemes for GD designs, tri-
angular designs, Latin square type designs, and cyclic designs have been standardized. These association
schemes are referred to by symbols in Tables V, VII, IX, XI, XIII, and XV where the plans for the above
types are detailed. Thus the standardized association scheme for a GD design having m=2 groups and
n = 4 treatments per group is referred to by the symbol "(2,4)" opposite "Groups" in the Tables V, VII and
IX and reference to section A of Table II informs us that the standardized association scheme (2,4) is
1 3 5 7
2 4 6 8
and that there are 11 GD designs identified as having this particular association scheme. The symbol T(n)
identifies the standardized triangular association scheme having v=n(n−1)/2 treatments. For the Latin
square types the symbol Li(n) identifies a standardized Latin square type Li(n) association scheme con-
sisting of a particular nXn array of treatment symbols 1, 2, . . ., n²=v along with (i-2) specific mutually
orthogonal Latin squares employed to complete the scheme as explained in section C of Table II. For cyclic
association schemes the symbol C (v: x1, x2, . . ., xn,) indicates that the n, first associates of treatment i
are obtained by adding i to X1, X2,
and reducing modulo v whenever i+x¡ exceeds v. The five stand-
Xn₁
ardized cyclic association schemes are given in section D and are referred to in Table XV more briefly by
the symbol C (v).
· .9
Table III. Sets of Blocks Constituting Replications for Partially Balanced Designs Based on Group
Divisible and Latin Square Types of Association Schemes.
It was found that the plans for D(2) designs of GD and Latin square types sometimes could be expressed
in terms of sets of blocks, each constituting a complete replication of treatments and that these replications
were being repeated in many designs. This fact was utilized to reduce printing costs by displaying the replica-
tion sets in Table III and then referring to these in Tables VII, IX, and XIII.
The eight "even" numbered Tables IV, VI, . . ., XVIII provide a compact source of information for all
D(2) designs of the eight classifications. Each design has a reference number, such as S32 or LS 113, and
these occupy the left-most columns of the tables. Horizontal lines contain information about the design
whose reference number appears at the left.
For GD designs succeeding columns give the design parameters v, r, k, b, m, n, λ₁, and λ2; for the other
types the column headings are for v, r, k, b, n₁, n2, A1, A2. The next three columns are occupied by efficiency
factors E1, E2, and E which are computed from formulas given in chapter III. The next column contains the
number of experimental units in the design, N=vr=bk, and provides the user a quick index as to the size
of the design.
The next column heading is "Unique Solution" and the entry will be "Yes" meaning that the solution
is unique (up to an isomorphism), "No", meaning that two or more combinatorially distinct plans or solutions
are known to be existent, and these plans are very frequently presented in the following "odd" numbered
table; "?", meaning that the uniqueness status for this design specification is an unsettled question.
The next column is headed "Complementary Design." The design complementary to the given one will
be a design with the same number of treatments v and the same number b of blocks and its jth block will con-
sist precisely of those treatments which do not appear in the jth block (j = 1, 2, . . ., b) of the given design.
The new design has block size v-k and b-r replications. The entries in this column vary. If the complementary
design is small (i.e., has 10 or fewer replications) it will be identified specifically, as "Design SR6" for ex-
ample; whereas if it is large the entry may be "NL" followed by "r=xx" meaning the complementary
design is a design with the same association scheme, is not listed in this book and it has r=xx replications.
4
