entries are varied and were explained previously for Tables IV, VI, . . ., XVIII. Entries whose meanings
are not clear are explained in Table 1. Glossary and Notation. The next entry is "Association Scheme."
If the association scheme is not standardized it is either given in detail or else a design Reference No. is
given where it may be found. If the association scheme is standardized a symbolic reference of the form
(m, n), T(n), Li(n) or C(v) will be given to Table II where it is given in detail. The blocks themselves serve
as association schemes for the Partial Geometry type of D(2) and for most of the miscellaneous designs. The
last entry is "Plan." Here the plan may be given in detail as was always done in BCS (1954); a shortened form
using the replication sets of Table III may be employed; a shortened form using cyclical development of
specified initial blocks may be displayed; or a word message may be used (1) for convenience, (2) for designs
for which N=bk=vr is so large the design is thought to have slight usefulness or (3) for cases for which the
construction may be extremely tedious. The need to find ways to cut publication costs has affected the pres-
entation of the plans, but a side benefit may be greater accuracy in some instances.
5. Special features of these tables. This publication has a few features that are new for tabulations of
incomplete block designs of type D(2). Something in excess of 95 percent of the designs of this volume have
been tested by electronic computer for validity of the plan as a D(2) design with the specified parameters
and association scheme. The computational constants C1, C2, H, and ▲ and the efficiency factors E1, E2, and E
were computed according to the formulas of Chapter III. The only cases where designs were not computer
verified for validity were those for which the plans were described by word messages.
...9
All the information that the reader now finds in the "odd” numbered Tables V, VII, . . XIX was trans-
ferred from the computer to magnetic tapes. These computer tapes became the input for programs developed
by the National Standard Reference Data System which essentially automatically controlled the type-
setting for these tables. Thus it is expected that a much smaller incidence of typographical errors will occur
in these particular tables.
6
