Chapter I. Introduction to the Tables
1. History. Incomplete block designs have become highly developed as statistical tools for the planning,
conduct, analysis, and interpretation of scientific experimentation conducted in laboratories and test instal-
lations where a high degree of experimental control is desirable or even necessary to cope with the experi-
mental variability that invariably arises throughout the conduct of the experiment. Historically the statistical
use of these designs began with the balanced incomplete block designs introduced by Yates (1936a) and de-
veloped by Fisher and Yates (1938) and Bose (1939) and extensively tabled in Fisher and Yates (1963) and
Cochran and Cox (1957) along with the lattice designs of Yates (1936b, 1937) and Cochran and Cox (1957)
all of which were developed for use in agricultural and biological experiments. Further refinements in sta-
tistically based experimental arrangements of the first type were developed by Youden (1937, 1951) and of
the second by Harshbarger (1946, 1947) and Nair (1951). Bose and Nair (1939) developed a very general
class of incomplete block designs which they called partially balanced incomplete block designs with m
associate classes (abbreviated PBIBD(m)). These designs include the balanced incomplete block designs
(BIB designs) and the square and rectangular lattice designs as special cases. Generally, they have the
advantage of providing an extremely large selection of experimental arrangements from which investigators
may choose the ones best suited to their needs. Besides the advantage of control of experimental variation
through the blocking technique, they offer (1) the opportunity to select plans of smaller size [fewer repetitions
of the treatments, varieties, test conditions, etc.], (2) statistical analysis of the experimental data by rela-
tively simple computational procedures, (3) simplicity of presentation and interpretation of the results from
comparative experiments in terms of clear-cut statements about their precision based on modern statistical
developments.
In the United States and England during the period of World War II, a strong interest was developed in
industry and in government to adapt the developments in probability and small sample theory to the control
of quality of production processes of industry. This interest was extended after the war to the introduction of
statistical procedures to the experimental problems of the physical and engineering sciences. This effort has
been particularly significant in the vast and expensive investigative activity associated with atomic power and
aerospace developments. Today there is intense interest in current developments in probability and statistics
for possible application to research and development in all branches of science, engineering, health and
medical research, business, and in fact, in any area where decisions need be made on the basis of incom-
plete information. Thus the incomplete block designs have potential for application to many fields of
investigation.
By 1952 R. C. Bose and a group of his advanced degree students at the University of North Carolina
(including S. S. Shrikhande, W. S. Connor, T. Shimamoto, and W. H. Clatworthy) had sufficiently extended
and developed the partially balanced incomplete block designs with two associate classes [PBIBD(2), or even
more briefly "D(2)" or "D(2) designs"] that several hundred were now available. With the encouragement of
Gertrude Cox, Director of the Institute of Statistics, Consolidated University of North Carolina, and with the
support of the Agricultural Experiment Station, North Carolina State College, some 375 of these D(2) designs
were classified, catalogued and generally put into convenient form for use by experimenters. A monograph
was published by Bose, Clatworthy and Shrikhande (1954) very soon after Bose and Shimamoto (1952) had
developed the concept of association schemes, on which the classification of D(2) designs is based. Since
1952 the concept of association schemes has been the subject of intensive research by statisticians interested
in the combinatorial problems of the design of experiments. The intimate relations between association
schemes and certain kinds of graphs has attracted many mathematicians interested in graph theory to join
in their investigation. The resulting improved insight into the construction problems of D(2) designs ac-
companying the improved knowledge of association schemes, led to the construction of literally hundreds
1
