Chapter III. Analysis of Partially Balanced Designs
1. Introduction. In this chapter, general solutions appropriate for data analysis are given. In section 2
both the intra-block and the combined intra- and inter-block analyses are given for each of the three models
for blocking configurations. Section 3 contains an explanation of the ways the association schemes can be
used to provide easier ways to compute useful quantities for the analysis using hand calculations. Section 4
provides 2 worked out examples as illustrative aids for those who use a desk calculator. Section 5 deals with
the general least squares approach for data analysis, appropriate when calculations are done on an electronic
computer. Finally, section 6 provides an example for use in checking out a computer code that utilizes the
methods of section 5.
Perhaps it should be emphasized that the data being analyzed here were taken from BCS (1954) and
originated at the Agriculture Experiment Station, North Carolina State College. The analyses given in
sections 4 and 6 differ from those of BCS (1954) in numerical computational details and in the provision of
variances for single treatment effects not available in 1954.
2. General analysis of D(2) designs. The general analysis procedure described in this section is a re-
organization of that presented in BCS (1954) which is a refinement of the general analysis of Rao (1947)
for partially balanced designs accomplished by the introduction of certain computational constants c₁,
C2, H, and ▲ for intra-block analyses and additional constants d, and d₂ for the combined intra- and inter-
block analyses of variance. We shall describe both these methods of analysis for each of three models.
Intra-block estimates are obtained from treatment contrasts obtained within the blocks. These arise
through the model commonly known as the fixed effects model in which the additive components representing
treatment effects t; and block effects b; are conceived of as fixed but unknown constants which we may wish
to intercompare.
On the other hand, inter-block estimates arise from the assumption that the block effects are random
variables, stochastically independent of each other and of the errors ej and identically distributed. They
are derived from contrasts among the block averages.
Under normality assumptions the intra-block estimates are independent of the inter-block estimates
and this led to an analysis of D(2) designs in which the estimation of the t is based on a linear combination
of the intra- and inter-block estimates of the ti.
For each of these estimation procedures we shall provide for three different conceptual models depend-
ing upon the nature of the blocking arrangements. These we define briefly.
Model 1 is the case for which there is no provision for grouping of blocks. This model is independent
of whether the b; are considered as fixed effects or random variables.
Model 2 is the model in which the design provides for groupings of the blocks such that within every
group each treatment occurs exactly n(≥ 1) times. The groups we call replication groups. If there are r'
such groups then r=nr'. In the model 2 setup the block effect b; of model 1 is now thought of as b;= pc+x;
where the pe represents a replication effect and the x; is a differential effect of the jth block in its replication
group. The x, is considered to be a fixed but unknown quantity in intra-block analyses, but is conceived of
xj
as a N(0, of) variable in inter-block analyses. The quantity pc is a fixed but unknown constant.
Model 3 is the model appropriate to designs which provide for replication groups orthogonal to the
blocks. Suppose the first e positions in the b blocks give exactly n replications of all treatments, the next
e positions provide exactly n replications, etc. If there are r' replication groups, then r=nr' and k=er'.
These designs provide for a two-way elimination of heterogeneity, i.e., between blocks and between replica-
tion groups orthogonal to blocks. Well-known examples of such designs are the Latin squares [Fisher (1958)]
and the Youden square designs [Youden (1937)]. D(2) and BIB designs having replications orthogonal to
27
