
NBS TECHNICAL PUBLICATIONS
PERIODICALS
JOURNAL OF RESEARCH reports National
Bureau of Standards research and development in
physics, mathematics, and chemistry. Comprehensive
scientific papers give complete details of the work,
including laboratory data, experimental procedures,
and theoretical and mathematical analyses. Illustrated
with photographs, drawings, and charts. Includes
listings of other NBS papers as issued.
Published in two sections, available separately:
• Physics and Chemistry (Section A)
Papers of interest primarily to scientists working in
these fields. This section covers a broad range of
physical and chemical research, with major emphasis
on standards of physical measurement, fundamental
constants, and properties of matter. Issued six times
a year. Annual subscription: Domestic, $17.00; For-
eign, $21.25.
• Mathematical Sciences (Section B)
Studies and compilations designed mainly for the
mathematician and theoretical physicist. Topics in
mathematical statistics, theory of experiment design,
numerical analysis, theoretical physics and chemistry,
logical design and programming of computers and
computer systems. Short numerical tables. Issued quar-
terly. Annual subscription: Domestic, $9.00; Foreign,
$11.25.
TECHNICAL NEWS BULLETIN
The best single source of information concerning the
Bureau's measurement, research, developmental, co-
operative, and publication activities, this monthly
publication is designed for the industry-oriented
individual whose daily work involves intimate contact
with science and technology-for engineers, chemists,
physicists, research managers, product-development
managers, and company executives. Includes listing of
all NBS papers as issued. Annual subscription: Do-
mestic, $6.50; Foreign, $8.25.
NONPERIODICALS
Applied Mathematics Series. Mathematical tables,
manuals, and studies.
Building Science Series. Research results, test
methods, and performance criteria of building ma-
terials, components, systems, and structures.
Handbooks. Recommended codes of engineering
and industrial practice (including safety codes) de-
veloped in cooperation with interested industries,
professional organizations, and regulatory bodies.
Special Publications. Proceedings of NBS confer-
ences, bibliographies, annual reports, wall charts,
pamphlets, etc.
Monographs. Major contributions to the technical
literature on various subjects related to the Bureau's
scientific and technical activities.
National Standard Reference Data Series.
NSRDS provides quantitative data on the physical
and chemical properties of materials, compiled from
the world's literature and critically evaluated.
Product Standards. Provide requirements for sizes,
types, quality, and methods for testing various indus-
trial products., These standards are developed co-
operatively with interested Government and industry
groups and provide the basis for common understand-
ing of product characteristics for both buyers and
sellers. Their use is voluntary.
Technical Notes. This series consists of communi-
cations and reports (covering both other-agency and
NBS-sponsored work) of limited or transitory interest.
Federal Information Processing Standards
Publications. This series is the official publication
within the Federal Government for information on
standards adopted and promulgated under the Public
Law 89-306, and Bureau of the Budget Circular A-86
entitled, Standardization of Data Elements and Codes
in Data Systems.
Consumer Information Series. Practical informa-
tion, based on NBS research and experience, cover-
ing areas of interest to the consumer. Easily under-
standable language and illustrations provide useful
background knowledge for shopping in today's tech-
nological marketplace.
BIBLIOGRAPHIC SUBSCRIPTION SERVICES
The following current-awareness and literature-survey bibliographies are issued periodically by the
Bureau:
Cryogenic Data Center Current Awareness Service (Publications and Reports of Interest in Cryogenics).
A literature survey issued weekly. Annual subscription: Domestic, $20.00; foreign, $25.00.
Liquefied Natural Gas. A literature survey issued quarterly. Annual subscription: $20.00.
Superconducting Devices and Materials. A literature survey issued quarterly. Annual subscription: $20.00.
Send subscription orders and remittances for the preceding bibliographic services to the U.S. Department
of Commerce, National Technical Information Service, Springfield, Va. 22151.
Electromagnetic Metrology Current Awareness Service (Abstracts of Selected Articles on Measurement
Techniques and Standards of Electromagnetic Quantities from D-C to Millimeter-Wave Frequencies). Issued
monthly. Annual subscription: $100.00 (Special rates fentia
and subscription order and
remittance to the Electromagnetic Metrology Informat
vision, National Bureau
of Standards, Boulder, Colo. 80302.
Order NBS publications (except B
from: Superintendent of Documents,
ington, D.C. 20402.
Services)
ce, Wash-
