
NATIONAL BUREAU OF STANDARDS
The National Bureau of Standards¹ was established by an act of Congress March 3,
1901. The Bureau's overall goal is to strengthen and advance the Nation's science and
technology and facilitate their effective application for public benefit. To this end, the
Bureau conducts research and provides: (1) a basis for the Nation's physical measure-
ment system, (2) scientific and technological services for industry and government, (3)
a technical basis for equity in trade, and (4) technical services to promote public safety.
The Bureau consists of the Institute for Basic Standards, the Institute for Materials
Research, the Institute for Applied Technology, the Center for Computer Sciences and
Technology, and the Office for Information Programs.
THE INSTITUTE FOR BASIC STANDARDS provides the central basis within the
United States of a complete and consistent system of physical measurement; coordinates
that system with measurement systems of other nations; and furnishes essential services
leading to accurate and uniform physical measurements throughout the Nation's scien-
tific community, industry, and commerce. The Institute consists of a Center for Radia-
tion Research, an Office of Measurement Services and the following divisions:
Applied Mathematics Electricity Mechanics
Linac Radiation 2 Nuclear Radiation "
2
Electronics a
-
-
Heat Optical Physics -
Applied Radiation 2
Quantum
Electromagnetics - Time and Frequency-Laboratory
Astrophysics - Cryogenics 3.
THE INSTITUTE FOR MATERIALS RESEARCH conducts materials research lead-
ing to improved methods of measurement, standards, and data on the properties of
well-characterized materials needed by industry, commerce, educational institutions, and
Government; provides advisory and research services to other Government agencies;
and develops, produces, and distributes standard reference materials. The Institute con-
sists of the Office of Standard Reference Materials and the following divisions:
Analytical Chemistry-Polymers-Metallurgy-Inorganic Materials-Reactor
Radiation-Physical Chemistry.
THE INSTITUTE FOR APPLIED TECHNOLOGY provides technical services to pro-
mote the use of available technology and to facilitate technological innovation in indus-
try and Government; cooperates with public and private organizations leading to the
development of technological standards (including mandatory safety standards), codes
and methods of test; and provides technical advice and services to Government agencies
upon request. The Institute also monitors NBS engineering standards activities and
provides liaison between NBS and national and international engineering standards
bodies. The Institute consists of a Center for Building Technology and the following
divisions and offices:
Engineering and Product Standards-Weights and Measures-Invention and
Innovation-Product Evaluation Technology-Electronic Technology-Techni-
cal Analysis-Measurement Engineering-Building Standards and Code Serv-
ices-Housing Technology-Federal Building Technology-Structures, Mate-
rials and Life Safety-Building Environment-Technical Evaluation and
Application-Fire Technology.
THE INSTITUTE FOR COMPUTER SCIENCES AND TECHNOLOGY conducts re-
search and provides technical services designed to aid Government agencies in improv-
ing cost effectiveness in the conduct of their programs through the selection, acquisition,
and effective utilization of automatic data processing equipment; and serves as the prin-
cipal focus within the executive branch for the development of Federal standards for
automatic data processing equipment, techniques, and computer languages. The Center
consists of the following offices and divisions:
Information Processing Standards-Computer Information-Computer Services
-Systems Development-Information Processing Technology.
THE OFFICE FOR INFORMATION PROGRAMS promotes optimum dissemination
and accessibility of scientific information generated within NBS and other agencies of
the Federal Government; promotes the development of the National Standard Reference
Data System and a system of information analysis centers dealing with the broader
aspects of the National Measurement System; provides appropriate services to ensure
that the NBS staff has optimum accessibility to the scientific information of the world,
and directs the public information activities of the Bureau. The Office consists of the
following organizational units:
Office of Standard Reference Data Office of Technical Information and
Publications-Library-Office of Inter
Headquarters and Laboratories at Gaithersburg, Mar
Washington, D.C. 20234.
Part of the Center for Radiation Research,
Located at Boulder, Colorado 80302,
Part of the Center for Building Technology.
niling address
