of new designs of D(2) type since the publication by Bose, Clatworthy, and Shrikhande [hereafter frequently
referred to briefly as "BCS (1954)"].
The extremely widespread and frequent referencing of BCS (1954) by scholars all over the world, the
vast development of new designs of D(2) type, and the very high potential for use of these combinatorial
arrangements in scientific experimentation led the present writer to the decision to prepare an up-to-date
catalog of D(2) designs along with associated, but incomplete, auxiliary information heretofore unpublished
(in fact never before attempted for a large collection of designs). These special features are described in
sections 4 and 5 of this Chapter.
2. Definition of a partially balanced incomplete block design with two associate classes and the relations
between its parameters. Following BCS (1954), an incomplete block design is said to be partially balanced
with two associate classes if it satisfies the following requirements.
(i) The experimental material is divided into b blocks of k units each, different treatments being applied
to the units in the same block.
(ii) There are v ( > k) treatments each of which occurs in r blocks.
(iii) There can be established a relation of association between any two treatments satisfying the
following requirements:
(a) Two treatments are either first associates or second associates.
(b) Each treatment has exactly n ith associates (i = 1, 2).
(c) Given any two treatments which are ith associates, the number of treatments common to the
jth associate of the first and the kth associate of the second is p and is independent of the
pair of treatments we start with. Also pj = på¿¡(i,j,k−1, 2).
(iv) Two treatments which are ith associates occur together in exactly λ; blocks (i = 1,2).
For a proper partially balanced incomplete block design λ₁ # λ2. If λ₁ = λ2 or if one of the n; vanishes,
the design becomes a balanced incomplete block design.
The numbers v, r, k, b, ni, n₂, A1, and A2 are called the parameters of the first kind, whereas the num-
bers pik (i, j, k=1, 2) are called the parameters of the second kind.
It is to be noted that the association relations between the treatments of a partially balanced design
are governed solely by the requirements of paragraph (iii) of the definition and do not depend upon how
the treatments are distributed in blocks. The association scheme depends only on the parameters n₁, n2,
and pk (i, j, k=1, 2).
The following relations between the parameters are known to hold:
(1.1)
(1.2)
(1.3)
(1.4)
(1.5)
(1.6)
(1.7)
(1.8)
(1.9)
vr=
bk,
n₁ + n₂ = v−1,
πιλι + 22 = (k - 1),
P₁₁ + P₁₂ = n₁ — 1,
P₁₁ + P22 = n2,
P₁₁+Pi₂ = ni,
1
-
P² + P22 = n2 — 1,
nip₁₂ = n2p1,
n₁P22 = n2p2.
2
