where
(3.42)
k-di
a' =
and
r { w' + w(k − 1 ) }
B'
-
d₁-d2
r { w'+w(k−1)}
As before, it is convenient to calculate the combined intra- and inter-block treatment effect estimates,
t'i, by use of an auxiliary v-rowed computational table whose headings are
Treatment
number i
Pi
G
i
3.2. Triangular designs. The standardized triangular association schemes listed in section B of Table II
are designated by T(n) where n is the parameter defining the scheme. For these association schemes there
are v=n(n−1)/2 treatments where n ≥ 5 is a positive integer. The v treatment symbols 1, 2, 3, . . ., v are
entered successively above the main diagonal of an n× array in which the main diagonal is blanked out
and then the array is completed so as to be symmetrical. Thus the standardized triangular scheme T(5)
has v = 10 treatments arranged in a 5 × 5 array as shown.
1 2 3 4
1
2 5
5 6
7
*
8
9
*
10
3 6 8
4 7
7 9 10
For the intra-block estimates, ti, of the treatment effects suppose we have already calculated the Qi but
now need the S, (Qi) in order to employ eq (3.10) to calculate (i = 1, 2, . . ., v). Again use the association
scheme, placing the Q; alongside the corresponding treatment symbol i. Then form row and column sums
in the marginal positions. Recall that S₁ (Qi) is the sum of the adjusted treatment yields for all treatments
which are first associates of a given treatment i. Since in a triangular association scheme the first associates of
any treatment i are exactly those treatments that lie in the same rows as treatment i and in the same columns,
the quantity S. (Qi) is the sum of the marginal subtotals of the row and column containing treatment i,
less 2Qi. Thus if n=5 and i=6 in the above scheme, then S, (Q6) will be the second row total plus the fourth
column total less 2Q6. Once the S, (Qi) are calculated they are entered in an auxiliary v-rowed computational
table whose first column consists of the treatment symbols; the second and third columns consist of the
corresponding Qi and S₁ (Qi). One can then use eq (3.10) to compute the fourth column consisting of î¿.
For the combined intra- and inter-block treatment effects estimates, î, one uses the triangular associa-
tion scheme with entries Pi, calculated from (3.26), placed beside treatment i and then calculates the S₁ (Pi)
in precisely the same way as the S₁ (Qi) for i = 1, 2, . . ., v. Knowing the S₁ (Pi), one can set up a v-rowed
auxiliary table with column headings i, Pi, S₁ (Pi) and ↑ and use eq (3.30) to calculate the entries of the
the fourth column.
3.3. D(2) designs based on Latin square types of association schemes. Recall that an L,(n) type associa-
tion scheme, 2<I≤n−1, n> 3, requires 1-2 mutually orthogonal Latin squares for its definition. It
consists of an n×n array of the treatment symbols 1, 2, . . ., v=n² written in the order of the printed page
with the 1-2 sets of Latin square symbols from the 1-2 mutually orthogonal Latin squares superposed on
the square array. The association schemes of type L, (n) used in this volume, unless otherwise specified,
consist of the standardized schemes presented in section C of Table II. Thus in each (i, j)-cell of the as-
sociation scheme one will find one (unique) treatment symbol and I-2 different "kinds" of Latin letters,
37
