and in which it is assumed that the block effects are random and identically distributed N(0, σ%), we have
the following auxiliary table:
TABLE 6
AUXILIARY TABLE FOR INTER-BLOCK ANALYSIS OF VARIANCE
(WITH REPLICATION GROUPS ORTHOGONAL TO BLOCKS)
Source of
Sum of squares
variation
Degrees of
freedom
Expectation of the
sum of squares
Treatments
(unadjusted)
G2
v-1
S'
-
r
N
1
Blocks
(adjusted)
b-1
St (by subtraction)
(b−1)σ²+(N−v)σ?
Replication
groups
r'-1
St (Transfer from Table 3)
Error
N−b-v−r'+2 S2 (Transfer from Table 3)
(N-b-v-r'+2)σ²
Συ
Σvi-a
N
Total
N-1
(Transfer from Table 3)
As before, we estimate of and σ² by equating S and S2 to their expectations and then estimate w and
w' by (3.24) and (3.25) and use these estimates for w and w' in the equations of estimation and the formula
for variance.
3. Use of the association schemes in data analysis. Prior to the introduction of the association schemes
by Bose and Shimamoto (1952) the computations in the analysis of data arising from the D(2) type of designs
was rather tedious, especially the evaluation of the v values for S₁ (Qi) for intra-block analyses and the
corresponding values S₁ (Pi) for the combined intra- and inter-block analyses. The association schemes
make possible the analyses in the forms given in section 4.1 and 4.2. We shall describe in this section how
to utilize the association schemes for D(2) type designs to calculate the quantities S₁ (Qi) and S₁ (P₁) for
i=1, 2,..., v.
When digital computers are used, the special features described in this section are of no special interest,
because an analysis based on general linear regression theory (which is in no way dependent on the clas-
sification of designs as group divisible, triangular, etc.) is appropriate. Further, a well designed computer
program will give variances for block effect estimates that are not available from the formulas prepared for
hand computing.
3.1. Group divisible designs. The association schemes for this very large class of D(2) designs are called
groups and are identified as "group (m, n)," meaning an mXn array of treatment symbols 1,2, . . ., v sys-
tematically arranged in m rows (groups) of n distinct treatments per group. The groups listed in Section A
of Table II are standardized and the group (m, n) is of the form
1
m+1
2
m+2
2m+1
2m+2
...
(n-1)m+1
(n-1)m+2
2m
3m
•
nm
After the Qi (i = 1, 2, . . ., v) have been calculated, one can consider the computation of the best intra-
block estimates, ti, of the treatment effects according to (3.10)
35
