To Joan Raup Rosenblatt, Chief of the Statistical Engineering Laboratory, I am grateful for
provision of congenial and delightful working conditions, and for giving me access to the Bureau's
staff and facilities.
To Janace Speckman of the Statistical Engineering Laboratory I am deeply grateful for as-
sistance extending over the 3-year period. About 95 percent of the statistical experimental arrange-
ments of this volume have been checked for their validity by computer techniques devised and
programmed by Janace Speckman and Joseph M. Cameron. All but minor parts of all tabulations
of this publication were typeset through computer-controlled processes. This necessitated key
punching of most of the contents of the odd numbered Tables V through XIX onto computer cards
and subsequent verification through a series of intricate arithmetical and combinatorial checks.
The tabular portions of this publication evolved from the author's handwritten copy. The transition
from handwritten copy to computer output has required of Miss Speckman extraordinary alertness
to detect errors and many forms of inconsistency in writing. Her critical reading of drafts of the
introductory chapters led to a number of improvements.
The vast amount of key punching required was done by Mrs. Eleanor S. Brown and Miss
Joanne Mobley.
Mrs. Carla G. Messina of the Office of Standard Reference Data deserves special mention for
devising the computer program for transforming ordinary computer output into the phototypeset
pages.
The introductory Chapters I and II, parts of Chapter III and the bibliography were typed in
final manuscript by Veronica Connor of the Statistical Engineering Laboratory. For her stenographic
skills and daily assistance with many requests I am most grateful.
Because of the rather extensive nature of BCS(1954) and its widespread use among researchers
in combinatorial arrangements and by experimentalists, it is felt that a listing of the main new fea-
tures of this volume would be informative. This is provided in the following section.
What is new in this volume. The heavy dependence of this volume upon the original publica-
tion will be obvious to anyone familiar with it. Insofar as the economic aspects of publication would
permit, the strong features of the BCS(1954) publication have been retained. For those familiar with
partially balanced designs it is perhaps worthwhile to summarize the new features of this volume.
Among them the following are perhaps worth mentioning:
1. The number of parametric specifications for designs has been increased from the 376 cata-
logued by BCS(1954) to 781 in this volume. The BCS(1954) publication contained a single design
construction for each parametric specification; in the present volume many parametric specifica-
tions have multiple constructions, providing altogether approximately 950 combinatorially distinct
designs.
2. Table 0 is an auxiliary table which provides the user of this volume a quick summary of
those designs of interest to him based on his requirements as to the number v of treatments, the
number k of experimental units per block and the number r of replications of each treatment.
3. For all designs whose plans were explicitly presented, a computer verification was per-
formed to show that the design is a valid one having the specified association scheme. This made
possible the detection and correction of the few cases of incorrect designs in BCS(1954). Approxi-
mately 95 percent of the designs of this volume have been computer verified for validity.
4. Standardization of association schemes has been provided for nearly all designs that have
specific displayed plans or constructions. These association schemes are displayed in Table II and
then referred to by symbolic designators whenever a plan is displayed. This standardization of asso-
ciation schemes has made necessary the reorganization of the solutions or plans of many previously
published designs.
5. Standardized sets of blocks constituting complete replications of treatments have been in-
troduced as construction modules or units (to reduce publication costs). These are displayed com-
pletely in Table III and then referred to by symbolic designators in presenting the plans of certain
regular group divisible, semi-regular group divisible and Latin square type designs.
vi
