6. The computational constants C1, C2, H, and ▲ and the efficiency factors E1, E2, and E, which
were computed by hand for BCS(1954), have been computer evaluated for this volume.
7. The literature sources for all designs published herein have been provided in the "even
numbered" Tables VI through XVIII. Whenever published plans for the same parametric specifi-
cation have been found to be combinatorially equivalent, this has been indicated along with an at-
tempt to identify the earliest publication.
8. Wherever possible, an attempt has been made to determine whether a parametric specifi-
cation for a design has the possibility of multiple combinatorially distinct plans. Cases known to
possess unique solutions (up to an isomorphism) are identified. This is the first time this has been
attempted in a large scale enumeration of partially balanced designs.
9. For each specifically displayed plan for a design an attempt has been made to provide infor-
mation regarding the corresponding complementary and dual designs. The resolvability status of
each plan is also specified whenever it is known. (This last is new only for designs not previously
published in BCS(1954).)
10. Each of the "even" numbered Tables IV through XVIII contains for each design an entry
which specifies the required number (vr) of experimental units as a ready reference in assessing the
sizes of the tabled designs.
11. Chapter 3 contains a special section, contributed by Joseph M. Cameron and Janace
Speckman, on the general least squares approach for use when the analysis is to be done on an
electronic computer. The same chapter contains a new section which emphasizes the convenience
and simplification in data analysis that arises from use of the association schemes and the recorded
computational constants C1, C2, H, and ▲, when desk calculators are employed.
The accuracy of the uniqueness and dual design assertions described in items 8 and 9 is not
amenable to computer verification. Responsibility for their validity is fully my own. The incom-
pleteness of this information is an indication that there is yet much to learn about the structural
nature of incomplete block designs.
WILLARD H. CLATWORTHY
February 20, 1971
vii
