SD-self dual
f.
-
truly self dual – A design D which is self dual and whose dual D' is isomorphic to D is a truly self dual (TSD) design. A TSD design
is always a SD design, but a SD design may not be a TSD design.
TSD-truly self dual.
truly self-dual, Hoffman (1963), and Clatworthy (1971a) - By application of a theorem of Hoffman, published in 1963, it may be
shown that the design being referenced has as its dual a design with the same parameters (i.e., it is self dual); by the work of
Clatworthy it is established that the design is truly self dual.
a D(c), Clatworthy (1956) – A reference to the dual of the particular recorded design. The dual design is a partially balanced design
with c associate classes, c being an integer> 3. This result is known as a consequence of a theorem by Clatworthy published in
1956.
Association schemes
association scheme-For partially balanced designs with two associate classes, the association scheme is an array of the treat-
ment symbols which provides concise and complete information on the first and second associates of any treatment. For
convenience and economy most of the designs in this publication have had their treatment symbols labeled so as to put their
association schemes into standardized forms and these are specified in Table II.
Groups: (x, y)—The particular design construction having this recorded entry is a design based on a group divisible association
scheme with n = y treatments in each of m = x distinct groups. The symbol (m, n) refers to a particular standardized associa-
tion scheme recorded in Table II.
T(n), n=5, 6, 7, -A symbol used to identify a standardized association scheme of the triangular type with parameter n.
The standardized triangular association schemes denoted by T(n) are the appropriate ones for the associated plans and
they are recorded in Table II.
Li(n)-A symbol used to denote the standardized form of the Latin square type of association scheme with parameter n and
i(≥2) constraints. The various Latin square types of association schemes in standardized forms and denoted by L¡(n) are
recorded in Table II. When in or n + 1 the association scheme is of the group divisible type.
L* (4)—A symbol used to identify a Latin square type association scheme with i = 3 constraints and parameter n = 4 which is
distinct from the one denoted by L3 (4).
Association scheme: a pseudo Latin square type-An association scheme whose parameters are those of the Latin square type
but whose treatment relations are not describable by a Latin square type of association scheme.
NLÎ(y), y=2, 3,
Mesner (1967).
•
.
or 10-A symbol used to denote the negative Latin square type of association scheme as developed by
C(x), where x = 5, 13, 17, 29, or 37-This symbol C(x) identifies the particular association scheme of cyclic type appropriate to
the particular design being enumerated. The cyclic association schemes denoted by C(x) are provided in Table II.
C(13: 1, 3, 4, 9, 10, 12); nonstandard – A specification of a particular association scheme of cyclic type. To identify the six first
associates of the treatment labeled i, add i to each of the numbers 1, 3, 4, 9, 10, 12, reducing the results modulo 13.
Association Scheme; not identified-The association scheme is of the general type indicated by the enumeration, but the particular
configuration of treatments in the association scheme has not been identified.
Association Scheme: no information given-For designs of the class D(2) based on partial geometries (i.e., designs with reference
numbers PGxy) no association scheme is needed as the blocks themselves serve as an association scheme since A₁ = 0,
A₂ = 1. The same situation holds for designs of the Miscellaneous classification where no information is recorded.
g. Plans
Plan: Repeat the plan of AB.xyz c times-The particular plan being enumerated may be constructed by repeating the plan of
Design AB.xyz c times. "Duplicate AB.xyz” means to repeat the blocks of Design AB.xyz twice.
Invert Design AB.xyz—To invert a design is to dualize it, i.e., to interchange the roles of treatments and blocks.
h.
Literature references
81
