nonresolvable-A design that is not resolvable is said to be nonresolvable (i.e., it is not one-resolvable ). However, a nonresolvahe
design may be a-resolvable where 2 < a <r.
affine resolvable design – A resolvable design for which every block intersects all the blocks outside its own replication in a constant
number of treatments is called affine resolvable. For such designs it is necessary that k²/v be integral.
d. Complementary designs
complementary design-The complement of a design D is a design D* such that D* has the same number of treatments v and the
same number of blocks b as the parent design D, and whose jth block consists of precisely those treatments which do not
occur in the jth block (j = 1, 2, . . ., b) of the parent design D.
-
tabular entry for complementary designs, “Design AB.xyz” – Whenever the complementary design of a particular listed design
is identified as Design AB.xyz it is meant that the result of the complementation operation can be placed into isomorphism with
the design identified as Design AB.xyz.
a degenerate design - An expression used to partially describe the complement of a particular recorded design (plan) when each
treatment appears only r=1 time in the complementary design. Obviously this degenerate complementary design is unique
(up to an isomorphism) so that its complement (the parent design) has a unique solution (up to an isomorphism).
connected design — A design is a connected design if every block and every treatment of the design are connected to every other block
and treatment. Two treatments, two blocks or a block and a treatment are said to be connected if it is possible to pass from
one to the other by means of a chain consisting alternately of blocks and treatments such that any two consecutive members
of the chain (i.e., a treatment and a block) are such that the treatment occurs in the block.
disconnected design - A design is said to be disconnected if it breaks up into connected parts such that a block or a treatment of
one part is unconnected with a block or a treatment of another part.
NL, r=c- An expression used to partially describe the complement of a particular design. It means that the complementary design
is not listed in the present enumeration but that it is a design of the same type and it has r=c replications.
NL, k=c-An expression used to partially describe the complement of a particular listed design. It means that the complementary
design is not listed in the enumeration of the present publication but that it is a design of the same type whose block size is
k = c.
self complementary design- A design D is said to be self complementary if its complementary design D* has precisely the same
parameters as the parent design D. The designs D and D* may or may not be isomorphic. For a design to be self complementary,
it is clearly necessary that v=2k (b=2r).
SC-self complementary
truly self complementary-If a design D is self complementary (SC) and if D and its complementary design are also isomorphic, we
say design D is truly self complementary (TSC). A TSC design is always a SC design but a SC design may not be a TSC design.
TSC-truly self complementary.
e. Dual designs
dual design-The dual (or inverse) of a design D is a design D' whose treatments are the blocks of design D and whose blocks are
the treatments of design D. If design D has parameters (v, b, r, k, . . .) then its dual D' has parameters (v', b', r', k', . . .)
= (b, v, k, i r, .). If N = (nij) is the v× b incidence matrix of the design D then the incidence matrix of design D' is the b×v
matrix N', where N' is the transpose of N.
.
-
tabular entry for dual designs, “Design AB.xyz” – Whenever the dual design of a particular solution (or plan) is identified as Design
AB.xyz, it is meant that the inversion produces a design which can be set into an isomorphism with the recorded solution for
Design AB.xyz. Since the dual (or inverse design) depends upon the order in which the blocks are arranged prior to inversion,
the dual design can assume many different appearances, all of which can be placed into isomorphism with any one of the
inversions.
irregular - A dual of the design D is said to be irregular when it is not a D(1) or a partially balanced incomplete design of m associate
classes (denoted by D(m)) where m ≥ 2. Clearly, if the design D possesses two or more distinct types of block structure, its
dual will be irregular.
.
..
not a D(x), x= 1, 2,
t, t an integer - It may be quite difficult to specifically identify the type of design that the dual design
actually is. In the difficult cases it may be easy to specify some design types that the dual is not. “Not a D(1) means that the dual
design is not a balanced incomplete block design, and "not a D(x), x=2, . . t" means that the dual design is not a partially
balanced design with x associate classes (x = 2, or 3, . . ., or t).
self dual- A design D is said to be self dual if its dual design D' has the same parameters as design D. Clearly, for a design to be
self dual it is necessary that v=b and r=k. It is not necessary that the dual D' of a design D be such that D is isomorphic to D'.
80
