Table I. Glossary and Notation
a. General
balanced incomplete block design- An arrangement of v treatments in b blocks, each of size k, such that (1) no treatment occurs
more than once in any block, (2) each treatment occurs in r blocks, and (3) such that every pair of treatments occurs in exactly
A blocks. Such a design may be denoted by BIBD, by BIB design, by D(1) or by its parameters expressed as an ordered pentuple
(v, b, r, k, λ). For BIB designs it is necessary (but not sufficient) that vr= = bk, λ(v − 1) = r(k − 1), k < v, d < r < b, v ≤ b (or
rk).
-
BIBD (v, b, r, k, λ) – A balanced incomplete block design whose parameters are v, b, r, k, λ. When the design is symmetric (v=b)
then the notation is abbreviated to "BIBD (v, k, λ)."
v-the number of treatments in a design
b-the number of blocks in a design
r-the number of replications; the number of blocks in which each treatment appears
k-the number of treatments contained in a block
A-in a balanced incomplete block design A is the number of blocks in which a pair of treatments occurs.
D(m), m ≥ 2, and integral - An abbreviation for "a partially balanced incomplete block design with m associate classes." Example:
"Dual: D(3)" means that the dual of the design being enumerated is a partially balanced design with three associate classes,
but that identification details are omitted.
BCS (1954)- A much-used abbreviation for reference to the original publication.
R. C. Bose, W. H. Clatworthy and S. S. Shrikhande, Tables of Partially Balanced Designs with Two Associate Classes, North
Carolina Agricultural Experiment Station, Technical Bulletin, No. 107, 1954.
plan or solution - An arrangement of treatments in blocks according to the specifications provided by the parameters is called a
plan or a solution. Sometimes only one combinationally distinct (unique) solution is possible for a set of parameters; for other
sets of parameters it may be possible to construct more than one combinationally distinct (nonunique) plan.
the true n-plicate (for n=2, duplicate) solution for the BIB design (v, bn, rn, k, nλ) — A description of a particular solution (or plan)
for BIB design with the recorded parameters. To construct it one would construct a plan for the BIB design with parameters
( v, b, r, k, λ), and then repeat this plan n times (n=2, 3, . . .) to obtain the desired plan for the referenced design.
b. Uniqueness and Nonuniqueness
isomorphic - Two designs are said to be isomorphic if by a 1-1 transformation of the treatments of the plan of one of the designs,
its blocks can be brought into coincidence with the blocks of the other, the order of treatments within blocks being of no con-
sequence.
Clearly, for two partially balanced designs with two associate classes to be isomorphic it is necessary that they have the same
sets of parameters, and the transformation of treatments must provide identical association schemes for the designs.
nonisomorphic-Two designs which have the same set of parameters are nonisomorphic (nonunique, distinct, combinationally
distinct) if they are not isomorphic.
unique- A design is said to be unique if all possible solutions or plans for that design can be put into isomorphism with any one
of them.
nonunique-See nonisomorphic.
c. Resolvability
resolvable - A plan or solution for a design is said to be resolvable if its blocks can be divided into subsets each of which contains
every treatment exactly once. Clearly, for resolvable designs it is necessary that b/r=v/k an integer.
a-resolvable (a= 1, 2, . . . or c <r) – A design whose blocks can be divided into subsets such that each subset contains every
treatment precisely a times where a is an integer less than r, is called an a-resolvable design or is said to have an a-resolvable
plan (or solution). Clearly, r/a must be an integer. A 1-resolvable design is a resolvable design.
79
