[the sum of the marginal subtotals of Q's corresponding to the row, the column, and to each of the I-2
Latin square symbols associated with treatment i] less [IQi]. The Qi and S₁ (Qi) associated with treatment i
are then entered in the ith row of an auxiliary v-rowed table whose headings are as shown.
Treatment
number i
Qi
S₁(Qi)
The are then calculated from (3.10) and entered into the last column of the table.
For the combined intra- and inter-block treatment effects estimates, î, we follow the same procedure
for calculating S₁(Pi) except that the P; are substituted for the Qi in the association scheme. For calculation
of the it is convenient to set up an auxiliary v-rowed table with P₁ replacing Q₁, S₁ (Pi) replacing S₁ (Qi) and
î replacing îi in the above table. Then t¦ is calculated from (3.30).
3.4. D(2) designs based on cyclic association schemes. In section D of Table II association schemes of
cyclic type are given for five values of v, namely v=5, 13, 17, 19, 37. These are standardized in the form
C(v: X1, X2,...,xn)
from which one obtains the n₁ first associates of treatment i (i=1, 2, . . ., v) by adding i to the numbers
X1, X2,. . ., xn, and reducing the sums modulo v whenever they exceed v. Any treatment that is not a first
associate of treatment i is its second associate.
For example, the standard association scheme for v=5 treatments is given as C(5: 2, 3). The first
associates of treatment i are shown in the table.
Treatment
First associates
i
of treatment i
4
45123
345
2 3
12345
3
4
5
1
For intra-block estimates the quantities Q are listed in the cyclic association scheme alongside the
treatment symbols for first associates of each treatment i (i = 1, 2, . . ., v). Row totals are then formed and
they are the S₁(Qi). For computation of S₁ (Pi) we substitute the P; for the Qi and then the row totals give
S₁(Pi).
3.5. D(2) designs based on partial geometries. For the partial geometries A₁ = 1 and λ=0 always, so
that the experimental plan itself can serve as an association scheme. There will be r blocks that contain
treatment i and those r(k-1) other treatments in the blocks with i are its n₁ first associates. All other
treatments (which never appear in a block with treatment i) are its n₂ second associates.
Also among the type of D(2) designs called miscellaneous nearly all designs have A₁ = c, c a positive
integer, and λ20 or A₁ = 0 and λ= c. Hence, what is said here about use of the blocks of the design as an
association scheme, applies also to nearly all miscellaneous designs.
=
The arrangement of the auxiliary computation tables for desk calculator analysis of designs of miscel-
laneous type D(2) designs based on partial geometries will not be described here. The interested reader is
referred to the statistical analysis section for "simple partially balanced incomplete block designs" in
Chapter III of BCS (1954) for the appropriate suggestions for analyses of these designs [which were previously
classified as "simple"].
4. Illustrative examples as guides for analyses using desk calculators. Whenever electronic computers
are available, their use in analyses of the D(2) type of incomplete block design is highly recommended. How-
39
