Preface
This volume is the result of cooperative efforts of several organizations and individuals. The
initial idea of revising the much referenced monograph of incomplete block designs,
R. C. Bose, W. H. Clatworthy, and S. S. Shrikhande,
Tables of Partially Balanced Designs With Two Associate Classes,
Tech. Bul. No. 107 of the North Carolina Agricultural Experiment
Station, Raleigh, North Carolina, 1954,
came after I received an invitation from Joan Raup Rosenblatt and Joseph M. Cameron to spend
a part of my 1968-69 sabbatical leave with the Statistical Engineering Laboratory of the National
Bureau of Standards. Since the establishment of its Statistical Engineering Laboratory in the mid-
Forties under the direction of Churchill Eisenhart, the Bureau of Standards has consistently pro-
vided strong support for the development of experimental arrangements useful in statistically
planned and analyzed experiments. As a former member of this Laboratory I had done much inves-
tigation into extending the number of available partially balanced designs of the type catalogued in
the publication of Bose, Clatworthy and Shrikhande (hereafter briefly referred to as “BCS(1954)”).
It was natural then to conceive of a sabbatical year project which would combine mutual interests
of the writer and the National Bureau of Standards to provide a greatly expanded revision of
BCS(1954) incorporating the many published results of a host of researchers in partially balanced
designs. This group includes W. J. Youden, Joseph M. Cameron, William S. Connor, Dale M.
Mesner and myself, all former members of the Statistical Engineering Laboratory, as well as many
other investigators of the United States, Canada, England, India, Japan and China.
The project of revising BCS(1954) has been financially supported directly by my "home"
institution, the State University of New York at Buffalo, through sabbatical salary received during
Academic Year 1968-1969, through a Grant-in-Aid, Contract 50-1120-A, received from The Re-
search Foundation of State University of New York, and through a National Science Foundation
Grant, GP8391, which supported me during the summers of 1968, 1969, and 1970, and completed
my financial support during the other half of Academic Year 1968-69.
I was also generously assisted in many ways by the University of North Carolina where I
worked full time on this project during AY 1968-69 as Visiting Professor with the Department
of Statistics. At Chapel Hill I was provided office space, secretarial assistance, use of library facili-
ties, and the congenial professional association so necessary to an extended project of this
magnitude.
I am deeply indebted also to the Department of Experimental Statistics and to the North
Carolina Agricultural Experimentation Station of the State University of North Carolina for their
approval to conduct the revision of BCS(1954).
The National Bureau of Standards has assisted the writer in so many ways in the preparation,
editing, and publication of this volume that any attempt to enumerate them fully will be futile.
I spent parts of the summers of 1968, 1969, and 1970 as a Guest Worker and have been in constant
communication with associates there during the Academic Years from September 1968 through
June 1971.
To Joseph M. Cameron of the Office of Measurement Services I am indebted for much profes-
sional advice, for helpful suggestions in the early stages of preparation, and for providing a general
least-squares approach to the analysis of the designs which is included in Chapter 3 of the
Introduction.
