In recent years there has been some evidence that very large designs may become practical in instances
where huge numbers of observations are economically possible and are recorded by automatic recording
or sensing devices. Thus the column heading is intended as a constant reminder that there is a very large
supply of very large D(2) designs available and easily constructed from the plans that are provided in detail
in this volume. Other entries in this column are explained in Table I. Glossary and Notation.
For the Latin square types of designs only the next column heading is “L; (n)”, the entries being symbols
like L3 (5) or L (4) which identify the specific standardized association scheme being used.
The next column heading is "Dual Designs." The dual of a design D is a design D' whose treatments
are the blocks of design D and whose blocks are the treatments of design D. If design D has parameters
(v, b, r, k, . . .) then its dual D' has parameter (v', b', r', k', . . .) = (b, v, k, r, . . .). If the dual of
the particular solution or plan being referenced is known, it is identified by an entry, such as "Design SR28".
If the referenced design is symmetrical (i.e., has v=b) the entry may be "SD" (self dual) meaning that
the dual design has the same parameters as the referenced design, but that they may not be combinatorially
equivalent; or the entry may be "TSD" (truly self dual) meaning that the design is not only self dual but is
isomorphic with the referenced design. An entry "D(x)" where x is 3, 4, or 5 means that the dual of the
referenced design is a partially balanced design in the sense of Bose and Nair (1939) with x associate classes.
Frequently, the dual of a given design is not recognizable as any well known type, but one can say something
about what it is not. An entry "not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3” means that the design is not a BIB design (not a
D(1)) and neither is it a partially balanced design with two or three associate classes. For entries that are
not explained here, the reader is referred to Table I. Glossary and Notation for an explanation.
The right-most heading is "Literature Sources", where the reader is referred to the references, which
are located after Table XIX. The reader is immediately impressed with the frequency of the reference
“BCS (1954)" as more than 350 of the designs of this tabulation are taken from this source. An intense
effort has been made to identify plans having the same parametric specification but combinatorially equiva-
lent plans. When such cases have been identified an indication of it has been made by first listing the first
publisher and in brackets listing the names of later writers who published combinatorially equivalent solu-
tions. For instance, the entry "P. M. Roy (1954) [Clatworthy (1956), John (1966)]" means that the solutions
published by Clatworthy (1956) and by John (1966), for the particular design being referenced, are combi-
natorially equivalent to the earlier solution by P. M. Roy (1954). For readers who have difficulty identifying
solutions as being the ones to which a source reference is given, there is the reminder that treatment symbols
were recast and plans rearranged frequently to put a plan into the standardized form of this volume. Also
the Literature Sources column is omitted from Table IV because, except for provision of multiple distinct
solutions for parametric specifications permitting nonunique solutions, the construction problem was
solved by Bose and his associates in 1952. The multiple solutions for SGD designs presented in this volume
were worked out by the author.
The "odd" numbered Tables V, VII, . . ., XIX provide detailed information about designs. For the GD
designs a referenced design is provided with the parametric specification
v, r, k, b, m, n, λ₁, and λ2;
for all other designs the values for a parametric specification
u, r, k, b, ni, Ai, (i=1, 2)
Pl Pl₂
P₁ =
P₂ =
P22-
P22
are listed. These are followed by values for the computational constants C1, C2, H, and ▲, and these are fol-
lowed by three efficiency factors E1, E2, and E (see chapter 3 for explanations.) The next entry is "Solution"
and opposite it an attempt has been made to provide information regarding the uniqueness and resolva-
bility of the particular plan which is presented. The next two entries are "Complement" and "Dual." The
5
