\n--- PAGE 00000001 ---\n
C 588,271
A UNITED STATES
DEPARTMENT OF
COMMERCE
PUBLICATION
DEPARTMENT
OF
COMMERCE
UNITED ST
STATES OF AMERICA
Phoenix
QA
1
U58
no.63
U.S.
DEPARTMENT
OF
COMMERCE
National
Bureau
of
Standards
B
NBS APPLIED MATHEMATICS SERIES 63
Tables of
Two-Associate-Class
Partially Balanced Designs
PHOENIX LIBe
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN LIBRARIES
\n--- PAGE 00000002 ---\n
NATIONAL BUREAU OF STANDARDS
The National Bureau of Standards¹ was established by an act of Congress March 3,
1901. The Bureau's overall goal is to strengthen and advance the Nation's science and
technology and facilitate their effective application for public benefit. To this end, the
Bureau conducts research and provides: (1) a basis for the Nation's physical measure-
ment system, (2) scientific and technological services for industry and government, (3)
a technical basis for equity in trade, and (4) technical services to promote public safety.
The Bureau consists of the Institute for Basic Standards, the Institute for Materials
Research, the Institute for Applied Technology, the Center for Computer Sciences and
Technology, and the Office for Information Programs.
THE INSTITUTE FOR BASIC STANDARDS provides the central basis within the
United States of a complete and consistent system of physical measurement; coordinates
that system with measurement systems of other nations; and furnishes essential services
leading to accurate and uniform physical measurements throughout the Nation's scien-
tific community, industry, and commerce. The Institute consists of a Center for Radia-
tion Research, an Office of Measurement Services and the following divisions:
Applied Mathematics Electricity Mechanics
Linac Radiation 2 Nuclear Radiation "
2
Electronics a
-
-
Heat Optical Physics -
Applied Radiation 2
Quantum
Electromagnetics - Time and Frequency-Laboratory
Astrophysics - Cryogenics 3.
THE INSTITUTE FOR MATERIALS RESEARCH conducts materials research lead-
ing to improved methods of measurement, standards, and data on the properties of
well-characterized materials needed by industry, commerce, educational institutions, and
Government; provides advisory and research services to other Government agencies;
and develops, produces, and distributes standard reference materials. The Institute con-
sists of the Office of Standard Reference Materials and the following divisions:
Analytical Chemistry-Polymers-Metallurgy-Inorganic Materials-Reactor
Radiation-Physical Chemistry.
THE INSTITUTE FOR APPLIED TECHNOLOGY provides technical services to pro-
mote the use of available technology and to facilitate technological innovation in indus-
try and Government; cooperates with public and private organizations leading to the
development of technological standards (including mandatory safety standards), codes
and methods of test; and provides technical advice and services to Government agencies
upon request. The Institute also monitors NBS engineering standards activities and
provides liaison between NBS and national and international engineering standards
bodies. The Institute consists of a Center for Building Technology and the following
divisions and offices:
Engineering and Product Standards-Weights and Measures-Invention and
Innovation-Product Evaluation Technology-Electronic Technology-Techni-
cal Analysis-Measurement Engineering-Building Standards and Code Serv-
ices-Housing Technology-Federal Building Technology-Structures, Mate-
rials and Life Safety-Building Environment-Technical Evaluation and
Application-Fire Technology.
THE INSTITUTE FOR COMPUTER SCIENCES AND TECHNOLOGY conducts re-
search and provides technical services designed to aid Government agencies in improv-
ing cost effectiveness in the conduct of their programs through the selection, acquisition,
and effective utilization of automatic data processing equipment; and serves as the prin-
cipal focus within the executive branch for the development of Federal standards for
automatic data processing equipment, techniques, and computer languages. The Center
consists of the following offices and divisions:
Information Processing Standards-Computer Information-Computer Services
-Systems Development-Information Processing Technology.
THE OFFICE FOR INFORMATION PROGRAMS promotes optimum dissemination
and accessibility of scientific information generated within NBS and other agencies of
the Federal Government; promotes the development of the National Standard Reference
Data System and a system of information analysis centers dealing with the broader
aspects of the National Measurement System; provides appropriate services to ensure
that the NBS staff has optimum accessibility to the scientific information of the world,
and directs the public information activities of the Bureau. The Office consists of the
following organizational units:
Office of Standard Reference Data Office of Technical Information and
Publications-Library-Office of Inter
Headquarters and Laboratories at Gaithersburg, Mar
Washington, D.C. 20234.
Part of the Center for Radiation Research,
Located at Boulder, Colorado 80302,
Part of the Center for Building Technology.
niling address
\n--- PAGE 00000003 ---\nTables of Two-Associate-Class
Partially Balanced Designs
Willard H. Clatworthy
Department of Statistics
State University of New York at Buffalo
Amherst, New York 14226
with contributions by
Joseph M. Cameron and Janace A. Speckman
Institute for Basic Standards
National Bureau of Standards
Washington, D.C. 20234
An enlarged and revised set of tables based on
Tables of Partially Balanced Designs with
Two Associate Classes
R. C. Bose, W. H. Clatworthy, and S. S. Shrikhande
University of North Carolina
DEPARTMENT
*
NATIONAL
OF
BUREAU
OF
COMMERCE
STANDARDS
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE, Frederick B. Dent, Secretary
NATIONAL BUREAU OF STANDARDS, Richard W. Roberts, Director
Issued May 1973
\n--- PAGE 00000004 ---\nPhoenix
QA
1
458
no.63
Library of Congress Catalog Number: 70-187759
National Bureau of Standards Applied Mathematics Series 63
Nat. Bur. Stand. (U.S.), Applied Mathematics Series 63, 327 pages (May 1973)
CODEN: NBAMAI
Issued May 1973
For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402
Price: $3.45 domestic postpaid; $3, GPO Bookstore. Stock No. 0303-0988.
(Order by SD Catalog No. C13.32:63).
\n--- PAGE 00000005 ---\nPhainis
7/4/33
,、,、
To
R. C. Bose
whose extraordinary contributions to combinatorial mathematics gave rise to the
whole class of incomplete block designs with which this volume is concerned, and
whose outstanding leadership as teacher and collaborator has stimulated the
development and effective use of experiment designs at the National Bureau of
Standards.
iii
\n--- PAGE 00000006 ---\nAbstract
This book is a revised and vastly expanded version of the monograph, R. C.
Bose, W. H. Clatworthy, and S. S. Shrikhande, Tables of Partially Balanced De-
signs With Two Associate Classes, Tech. Bul. No. 107 of the North Carolina Agri-
cultural Experiment Station, Raleigh, North Carolina, 1954.
Approximately 950 combinatorially distinct designs are given, which repre-
sents a doubling of the number of parametric specifications for designs of the origi-
nal publication. The introduction includes special instructions to aid analysis using
hand calculations and a section on the general least-squares approach for use when
the analysis is to be done on an electronic computer.
For those interested in the construction of the designs, information is pro-
vided on methods of construction and extensive references, including original
sources for the designs, are given. A tabulation of known information about unique-
ness, resolvability and the nature of the corresponding dual and complementary
designs is also included for each design.
Key words: Analysis of PBIB designs; experimental designs; finite fields; finite
geometries; finite projective planes; incidence matrices; incomplete block designs;
mathematics; partially balanced; partially balanced incomplete block designs:
PBIB designs; statistics; tables of PBIB designs.
iv
\n--- PAGE 00000007 ---\nPreface
This volume is the result of cooperative efforts of several organizations and individuals. The
initial idea of revising the much referenced monograph of incomplete block designs,
R. C. Bose, W. H. Clatworthy, and S. S. Shrikhande,
Tables of Partially Balanced Designs With Two Associate Classes,
Tech. Bul. No. 107 of the North Carolina Agricultural Experiment
Station, Raleigh, North Carolina, 1954,
came after I received an invitation from Joan Raup Rosenblatt and Joseph M. Cameron to spend
a part of my 1968-69 sabbatical leave with the Statistical Engineering Laboratory of the National
Bureau of Standards. Since the establishment of its Statistical Engineering Laboratory in the mid-
Forties under the direction of Churchill Eisenhart, the Bureau of Standards has consistently pro-
vided strong support for the development of experimental arrangements useful in statistically
planned and analyzed experiments. As a former member of this Laboratory I had done much inves-
tigation into extending the number of available partially balanced designs of the type catalogued in
the publication of Bose, Clatworthy and Shrikhande (hereafter briefly referred to as “BCS(1954)”).
It was natural then to conceive of a sabbatical year project which would combine mutual interests
of the writer and the National Bureau of Standards to provide a greatly expanded revision of
BCS(1954) incorporating the many published results of a host of researchers in partially balanced
designs. This group includes W. J. Youden, Joseph M. Cameron, William S. Connor, Dale M.
Mesner and myself, all former members of the Statistical Engineering Laboratory, as well as many
other investigators of the United States, Canada, England, India, Japan and China.
The project of revising BCS(1954) has been financially supported directly by my "home"
institution, the State University of New York at Buffalo, through sabbatical salary received during
Academic Year 1968-1969, through a Grant-in-Aid, Contract 50-1120-A, received from The Re-
search Foundation of State University of New York, and through a National Science Foundation
Grant, GP8391, which supported me during the summers of 1968, 1969, and 1970, and completed
my financial support during the other half of Academic Year 1968-69.
I was also generously assisted in many ways by the University of North Carolina where I
worked full time on this project during AY 1968-69 as Visiting Professor with the Department
of Statistics. At Chapel Hill I was provided office space, secretarial assistance, use of library facili-
ties, and the congenial professional association so necessary to an extended project of this
magnitude.
I am deeply indebted also to the Department of Experimental Statistics and to the North
Carolina Agricultural Experimentation Station of the State University of North Carolina for their
approval to conduct the revision of BCS(1954).
The National Bureau of Standards has assisted the writer in so many ways in the preparation,
editing, and publication of this volume that any attempt to enumerate them fully will be futile.
I spent parts of the summers of 1968, 1969, and 1970 as a Guest Worker and have been in constant
communication with associates there during the Academic Years from September 1968 through
June 1971.
To Joseph M. Cameron of the Office of Measurement Services I am indebted for much profes-
sional advice, for helpful suggestions in the early stages of preparation, and for providing a general
least-squares approach to the analysis of the designs which is included in Chapter 3 of the
Introduction.
\n--- PAGE 00000008 ---\nTo Joan Raup Rosenblatt, Chief of the Statistical Engineering Laboratory, I am grateful for
provision of congenial and delightful working conditions, and for giving me access to the Bureau's
staff and facilities.
To Janace Speckman of the Statistical Engineering Laboratory I am deeply grateful for as-
sistance extending over the 3-year period. About 95 percent of the statistical experimental arrange-
ments of this volume have been checked for their validity by computer techniques devised and
programmed by Janace Speckman and Joseph M. Cameron. All but minor parts of all tabulations
of this publication were typeset through computer-controlled processes. This necessitated key
punching of most of the contents of the odd numbered Tables V through XIX onto computer cards
and subsequent verification through a series of intricate arithmetical and combinatorial checks.
The tabular portions of this publication evolved from the author's handwritten copy. The transition
from handwritten copy to computer output has required of Miss Speckman extraordinary alertness
to detect errors and many forms of inconsistency in writing. Her critical reading of drafts of the
introductory chapters led to a number of improvements.
The vast amount of key punching required was done by Mrs. Eleanor S. Brown and Miss
Joanne Mobley.
Mrs. Carla G. Messina of the Office of Standard Reference Data deserves special mention for
devising the computer program for transforming ordinary computer output into the phototypeset
pages.
The introductory Chapters I and II, parts of Chapter III and the bibliography were typed in
final manuscript by Veronica Connor of the Statistical Engineering Laboratory. For her stenographic
skills and daily assistance with many requests I am most grateful.
Because of the rather extensive nature of BCS(1954) and its widespread use among researchers
in combinatorial arrangements and by experimentalists, it is felt that a listing of the main new fea-
tures of this volume would be informative. This is provided in the following section.
What is new in this volume. The heavy dependence of this volume upon the original publica-
tion will be obvious to anyone familiar with it. Insofar as the economic aspects of publication would
permit, the strong features of the BCS(1954) publication have been retained. For those familiar with
partially balanced designs it is perhaps worthwhile to summarize the new features of this volume.
Among them the following are perhaps worth mentioning:
1. The number of parametric specifications for designs has been increased from the 376 cata-
logued by BCS(1954) to 781 in this volume. The BCS(1954) publication contained a single design
construction for each parametric specification; in the present volume many parametric specifica-
tions have multiple constructions, providing altogether approximately 950 combinatorially distinct
designs.
2. Table 0 is an auxiliary table which provides the user of this volume a quick summary of
those designs of interest to him based on his requirements as to the number v of treatments, the
number k of experimental units per block and the number r of replications of each treatment.
3. For all designs whose plans were explicitly presented, a computer verification was per-
formed to show that the design is a valid one having the specified association scheme. This made
possible the detection and correction of the few cases of incorrect designs in BCS(1954). Approxi-
mately 95 percent of the designs of this volume have been computer verified for validity.
4. Standardization of association schemes has been provided for nearly all designs that have
specific displayed plans or constructions. These association schemes are displayed in Table II and
then referred to by symbolic designators whenever a plan is displayed. This standardization of asso-
ciation schemes has made necessary the reorganization of the solutions or plans of many previously
published designs.
5. Standardized sets of blocks constituting complete replications of treatments have been in-
troduced as construction modules or units (to reduce publication costs). These are displayed com-
pletely in Table III and then referred to by symbolic designators in presenting the plans of certain
regular group divisible, semi-regular group divisible and Latin square type designs.
vi
\n--- PAGE 00000009 ---\n6. The computational constants C1, C2, H, and ▲ and the efficiency factors E1, E2, and E, which
were computed by hand for BCS(1954), have been computer evaluated for this volume.
7. The literature sources for all designs published herein have been provided in the "even
numbered" Tables VI through XVIII. Whenever published plans for the same parametric specifi-
cation have been found to be combinatorially equivalent, this has been indicated along with an at-
tempt to identify the earliest publication.
8. Wherever possible, an attempt has been made to determine whether a parametric specifi-
cation for a design has the possibility of multiple combinatorially distinct plans. Cases known to
possess unique solutions (up to an isomorphism) are identified. This is the first time this has been
attempted in a large scale enumeration of partially balanced designs.
9. For each specifically displayed plan for a design an attempt has been made to provide infor-
mation regarding the corresponding complementary and dual designs. The resolvability status of
each plan is also specified whenever it is known. (This last is new only for designs not previously
published in BCS(1954).)
10. Each of the "even" numbered Tables IV through XVIII contains for each design an entry
which specifies the required number (vr) of experimental units as a ready reference in assessing the
sizes of the tabled designs.
11. Chapter 3 contains a special section, contributed by Joseph M. Cameron and Janace
Speckman, on the general least squares approach for use when the analysis is to be done on an
electronic computer. The same chapter contains a new section which emphasizes the convenience
and simplification in data analysis that arises from use of the association schemes and the recorded
computational constants C1, C2, H, and ▲, when desk calculators are employed.
The accuracy of the uniqueness and dual design assertions described in items 8 and 9 is not
amenable to computer verification. Responsibility for their validity is fully my own. The incom-
pleteness of this information is an indication that there is yet much to learn about the structural
nature of incomplete block designs.
WILLARD H. CLATWORTHY
February 20, 1971
vii
\n--- PAGE 00000010 ---\n\n--- PAGE 00000011 ---\nPreface.......
Chapter I.
Contents
Introduction to the Tables.......
Chapter II. The Classification of Designs………
Chapter III.
Table 0.
Analysis of Partially Balanced Designs........
Table I.
Table II.
Auxiliary Table for Identifying Designs of Potential Interest According to
the Magnitudes of Parameters k and v…………………………………..
Glossary and Notation.......
Association Schemes for Catalogued Designs…………..
A. Group Divisible Association Schemes, (m, n).
B. Triangular Association Schemes……………………….
Page
V
1
7
27
74
79
83
83
92
C. Latin Square Types of Association Schemes..
D. Cyclic Type Association Schemes.......
93
97
Table III.
Sets of Blocks Constituting Replications for Partially Balanced Designs
Based on Group Divisible and Latin Square Types of Association
Schemes.....
98
Table IV.
Singular Group Divisible Designs: Parameters and Auxiliary Informa-
tion.......
103
Table V.
Table VI.
Singular Group Divisible Designs…....
107
Semiregular Group Divisible Designs: Parameters and Auxiliary In-
formation.......
137
Table VII.
Semiregular Group Divisible Designs....
141
Table VIII.
Regular Group Divisible Designs: Parameters and Auxiliary Informa-
tion.........
173
Table IX.
Table X.
Regular Group Divisible Designs..
181
Partially Balanced Designs Based on Triangular Association Schemes:
Parameters and Auxiliary Information………………..
230
Table XI.
Table XII.
Partially Balanced Designs Based on Triangular Association Schemes...
Partially Balanced Designs Based on Latin Square Types of Associa-
tion Schemes: Parameters and Auxiliary Information.......
Table XIII. Partially Balanced Designs Based on Latin Square Types of Associa
tion Schemes....
234
255
260
Table XIV.
Partially Balanced Designs Based on the Cyclic Type of Association
Scheme: Parameters and Auxiliary Information......
289
Table XV.
Partially Balanced Designs Based on the Cyclic Type of Association
Scheme......
290
Table XVI.
Partially Balanced Designs Based on Partial Geometries: Parameters
and Auxiliary Information......
295
Table XVII. Partially Balanced Designs Based on Partial Geometries...
296
Table XVIII. Miscellaneous Partially Balanced Designs: Parameters and Auxiliary
Information.......
301
Table XIX. Miscellaneous Partially Balanced Designs..
303
References.....
312
ix
\n--- PAGE 00000012 ---\n\n--- PAGE 00000013 ---\nChapter I. Introduction to the Tables
1. History. Incomplete block designs have become highly developed as statistical tools for the planning,
conduct, analysis, and interpretation of scientific experimentation conducted in laboratories and test instal-
lations where a high degree of experimental control is desirable or even necessary to cope with the experi-
mental variability that invariably arises throughout the conduct of the experiment. Historically the statistical
use of these designs began with the balanced incomplete block designs introduced by Yates (1936a) and de-
veloped by Fisher and Yates (1938) and Bose (1939) and extensively tabled in Fisher and Yates (1963) and
Cochran and Cox (1957) along with the lattice designs of Yates (1936b, 1937) and Cochran and Cox (1957)
all of which were developed for use in agricultural and biological experiments. Further refinements in sta-
tistically based experimental arrangements of the first type were developed by Youden (1937, 1951) and of
the second by Harshbarger (1946, 1947) and Nair (1951). Bose and Nair (1939) developed a very general
class of incomplete block designs which they called partially balanced incomplete block designs with m
associate classes (abbreviated PBIBD(m)). These designs include the balanced incomplete block designs
(BIB designs) and the square and rectangular lattice designs as special cases. Generally, they have the
advantage of providing an extremely large selection of experimental arrangements from which investigators
may choose the ones best suited to their needs. Besides the advantage of control of experimental variation
through the blocking technique, they offer (1) the opportunity to select plans of smaller size [fewer repetitions
of the treatments, varieties, test conditions, etc.], (2) statistical analysis of the experimental data by rela-
tively simple computational procedures, (3) simplicity of presentation and interpretation of the results from
comparative experiments in terms of clear-cut statements about their precision based on modern statistical
developments.
In the United States and England during the period of World War II, a strong interest was developed in
industry and in government to adapt the developments in probability and small sample theory to the control
of quality of production processes of industry. This interest was extended after the war to the introduction of
statistical procedures to the experimental problems of the physical and engineering sciences. This effort has
been particularly significant in the vast and expensive investigative activity associated with atomic power and
aerospace developments. Today there is intense interest in current developments in probability and statistics
for possible application to research and development in all branches of science, engineering, health and
medical research, business, and in fact, in any area where decisions need be made on the basis of incom-
plete information. Thus the incomplete block designs have potential for application to many fields of
investigation.
By 1952 R. C. Bose and a group of his advanced degree students at the University of North Carolina
(including S. S. Shrikhande, W. S. Connor, T. Shimamoto, and W. H. Clatworthy) had sufficiently extended
and developed the partially balanced incomplete block designs with two associate classes [PBIBD(2), or even
more briefly "D(2)" or "D(2) designs"] that several hundred were now available. With the encouragement of
Gertrude Cox, Director of the Institute of Statistics, Consolidated University of North Carolina, and with the
support of the Agricultural Experiment Station, North Carolina State College, some 375 of these D(2) designs
were classified, catalogued and generally put into convenient form for use by experimenters. A monograph
was published by Bose, Clatworthy and Shrikhande (1954) very soon after Bose and Shimamoto (1952) had
developed the concept of association schemes, on which the classification of D(2) designs is based. Since
1952 the concept of association schemes has been the subject of intensive research by statisticians interested
in the combinatorial problems of the design of experiments. The intimate relations between association
schemes and certain kinds of graphs has attracted many mathematicians interested in graph theory to join
in their investigation. The resulting improved insight into the construction problems of D(2) designs ac-
companying the improved knowledge of association schemes, led to the construction of literally hundreds
1
\n--- PAGE 00000014 ---\nof new designs of D(2) type since the publication by Bose, Clatworthy, and Shrikhande [hereafter frequently
referred to briefly as "BCS (1954)"].
The extremely widespread and frequent referencing of BCS (1954) by scholars all over the world, the
vast development of new designs of D(2) type, and the very high potential for use of these combinatorial
arrangements in scientific experimentation led the present writer to the decision to prepare an up-to-date
catalog of D(2) designs along with associated, but incomplete, auxiliary information heretofore unpublished
(in fact never before attempted for a large collection of designs). These special features are described in
sections 4 and 5 of this Chapter.
2. Definition of a partially balanced incomplete block design with two associate classes and the relations
between its parameters. Following BCS (1954), an incomplete block design is said to be partially balanced
with two associate classes if it satisfies the following requirements.
(i) The experimental material is divided into b blocks of k units each, different treatments being applied
to the units in the same block.
(ii) There are v ( > k) treatments each of which occurs in r blocks.
(iii) There can be established a relation of association between any two treatments satisfying the
following requirements:
(a) Two treatments are either first associates or second associates.
(b) Each treatment has exactly n ith associates (i = 1, 2).
(c) Given any two treatments which are ith associates, the number of treatments common to the
jth associate of the first and the kth associate of the second is p and is independent of the
pair of treatments we start with. Also pj = på¿¡(i,j,k−1, 2).
(iv) Two treatments which are ith associates occur together in exactly λ; blocks (i = 1,2).
For a proper partially balanced incomplete block design λ₁ # λ2. If λ₁ = λ2 or if one of the n; vanishes,
the design becomes a balanced incomplete block design.
The numbers v, r, k, b, ni, n₂, A1, and A2 are called the parameters of the first kind, whereas the num-
bers pik (i, j, k=1, 2) are called the parameters of the second kind.
It is to be noted that the association relations between the treatments of a partially balanced design
are governed solely by the requirements of paragraph (iii) of the definition and do not depend upon how
the treatments are distributed in blocks. The association scheme depends only on the parameters n₁, n2,
and pk (i, j, k=1, 2).
The following relations between the parameters are known to hold:
(1.1)
(1.2)
(1.3)
(1.4)
(1.5)
(1.6)
(1.7)
(1.8)
(1.9)
vr=
bk,
n₁ + n₂ = v−1,
πιλι + 22 = (k - 1),
P₁₁ + P₁₂ = n₁ — 1,
P₁₁ + P22 = n2,
P₁₁+Pi₂ = ni,
1
-
P² + P22 = n2 — 1,
nip₁₂ = n2p1,
n₁P22 = n2p2.
2
\n--- PAGE 00000015 ---\nWe can exhibit the parameters pix of the second kind as the elements of the two symmetric matrices
(1.10)
P₁
=
[P
LP
P21
Pi Piz
P22
and
P2
=
[Pi Piz
P1 P22
21
1
Since the above matrices are symmetric, it is unnecessary to write down the elements p₂, and på
explicitly. These values will accordingly be omitted in the rest of the monograph. The computed quantities
P₁ and P2, which arise in the analysis of these designs, should not be confused with the matrices P₁ and P2.
3. Classification of D(2) designs. This volume contains more than 800 experimental designs of type
D(2) for which 2 ≤ k ≤ 10 and 2 <r< 10 where k is the number of experimental units in a block and r is
the number of blocks in which each treatment appears. These designs are classified into the following
types:
(a) Group Divisible (GD), consisting of three subtypes
(al) Singular (S)
(a2) Semi-Regular (SR)
(a3) Regular (R)
(b) Triangular (T)
(c) Latin Square types (LS)
(d) Cyclic (C)
(e) Partial Geometry (PG)
(f) Miscellaneous (M).
These classifications are defined and briefly described in the next chapter. General least squares
analysis of D(2) designs is provided in the third chapter along with a general method of solution suitable for
modern computers. Methods for use with a desk calculator are also illustrated.
4. Scope of the tables. The extensive expansion of the present classification of D(2) designs from 375
to more than 800 parametric specifications necessitated the introduction of new modes of presentation to
conserve space and to minimize publication costs. Simultaneously, it has been attempted to provide con-
siderable auxiliary information not heretofore provided in such compilations of designs. To efficiently use
this volume the reader should be aware of the tabular subdivisions, their purpose and scope. There are 20
tables designated by 0 and the roman numerals I, II, . . ., XIX.
Table 0. Auxiliary Table for Identifying Designs of Potential Interest According to the Magnitudes
of Parameters k and v.
Table 0 is the key guide to entry of Tables IV through XIX. It is felt that the user of this volume, when he
is searching for a design, will generally know the block size k and the number v of treatments for his pro-
posed experiment. Thus Table 0 has 9 subheadings "k=2", "k=3”, . . ., “k= 10". Under each subheading
the entries are for increasing magnitudes of v, the number of treatments. Under k, v combinations, the entries
are for the number of replications r and the number b of blocks. The table entries are design reference
numbers having the combination of values k, v, r, b. Knowing these design reference numbers and the titles
for Tables IV through XIX, the user is guided to designs of interest. For instance, if the user is searching
for an experimental arrangement with blocks of size k=4 to accommodate v = 10 treatments and is willing
to have an r as large as 10, entry of Table 0 first for k=4, then v = 10 leads to the following designs for r=2,
4, 6, 8, and 10:
k=4
v
r
b
Ref. Nos.
10
10
24000
10
6
8
20
SO523
T28
S9, T29, T33
15
T30
S10, R106, T31, T34, T36
R107, R108, T32, T35, T37
3
\n--- PAGE 00000016 ---\nThe reader is then informed that for k=4, v=10, r=2 there is only one design, designated T28, available;
for r=4 he can choose among three designs, one singular GD and two triangular designs; for r=6 there is
only the triangular design T30 available; but for r=8 and 10, there are five choices each, as indicated above.
The user is then led to one or more tables among Tables IV through XIX depending upon his choices.
Table I. Glossary and Notation. This table explains the concisely presented information in the tables.
Abbreviations and symbols are explained, as are technical terms. Terminology not explained in the intro-
ductory chapters is generally found here.
Table II. Association Schemes for Catalogued Designs. The association schemes for GD designs, tri-
angular designs, Latin square type designs, and cyclic designs have been standardized. These association
schemes are referred to by symbols in Tables V, VII, IX, XI, XIII, and XV where the plans for the above
types are detailed. Thus the standardized association scheme for a GD design having m=2 groups and
n = 4 treatments per group is referred to by the symbol "(2,4)" opposite "Groups" in the Tables V, VII and
IX and reference to section A of Table II informs us that the standardized association scheme (2,4) is
1 3 5 7
2 4 6 8
and that there are 11 GD designs identified as having this particular association scheme. The symbol T(n)
identifies the standardized triangular association scheme having v=n(n−1)/2 treatments. For the Latin
square types the symbol Li(n) identifies a standardized Latin square type Li(n) association scheme con-
sisting of a particular nXn array of treatment symbols 1, 2, . . ., n²=v along with (i-2) specific mutually
orthogonal Latin squares employed to complete the scheme as explained in section C of Table II. For cyclic
association schemes the symbol C (v: x1, x2, . . ., xn,) indicates that the n, first associates of treatment i
are obtained by adding i to X1, X2,
and reducing modulo v whenever i+x¡ exceeds v. The five stand-
Xn₁
ardized cyclic association schemes are given in section D and are referred to in Table XV more briefly by
the symbol C (v).
· .9
Table III. Sets of Blocks Constituting Replications for Partially Balanced Designs Based on Group
Divisible and Latin Square Types of Association Schemes.
It was found that the plans for D(2) designs of GD and Latin square types sometimes could be expressed
in terms of sets of blocks, each constituting a complete replication of treatments and that these replications
were being repeated in many designs. This fact was utilized to reduce printing costs by displaying the replica-
tion sets in Table III and then referring to these in Tables VII, IX, and XIII.
The eight "even" numbered Tables IV, VI, . . ., XVIII provide a compact source of information for all
D(2) designs of the eight classifications. Each design has a reference number, such as S32 or LS 113, and
these occupy the left-most columns of the tables. Horizontal lines contain information about the design
whose reference number appears at the left.
For GD designs succeeding columns give the design parameters v, r, k, b, m, n, λ₁, and λ2; for the other
types the column headings are for v, r, k, b, n₁, n2, A1, A2. The next three columns are occupied by efficiency
factors E1, E2, and E which are computed from formulas given in chapter III. The next column contains the
number of experimental units in the design, N=vr=bk, and provides the user a quick index as to the size
of the design.
The next column heading is "Unique Solution" and the entry will be "Yes" meaning that the solution
is unique (up to an isomorphism), "No", meaning that two or more combinatorially distinct plans or solutions
are known to be existent, and these plans are very frequently presented in the following "odd" numbered
table; "?", meaning that the uniqueness status for this design specification is an unsettled question.
The next column is headed "Complementary Design." The design complementary to the given one will
be a design with the same number of treatments v and the same number b of blocks and its jth block will con-
sist precisely of those treatments which do not appear in the jth block (j = 1, 2, . . ., b) of the given design.
The new design has block size v-k and b-r replications. The entries in this column vary. If the complementary
design is small (i.e., has 10 or fewer replications) it will be identified specifically, as "Design SR6" for ex-
ample; whereas if it is large the entry may be "NL" followed by "r=xx" meaning the complementary
design is a design with the same association scheme, is not listed in this book and it has r=xx replications.
4
\n--- PAGE 00000017 ---\nIn recent years there has been some evidence that very large designs may become practical in instances
where huge numbers of observations are economically possible and are recorded by automatic recording
or sensing devices. Thus the column heading is intended as a constant reminder that there is a very large
supply of very large D(2) designs available and easily constructed from the plans that are provided in detail
in this volume. Other entries in this column are explained in Table I. Glossary and Notation.
For the Latin square types of designs only the next column heading is “L; (n)”, the entries being symbols
like L3 (5) or L (4) which identify the specific standardized association scheme being used.
The next column heading is "Dual Designs." The dual of a design D is a design D' whose treatments
are the blocks of design D and whose blocks are the treatments of design D. If design D has parameters
(v, b, r, k, . . .) then its dual D' has parameter (v', b', r', k', . . .) = (b, v, k, r, . . .). If the dual of
the particular solution or plan being referenced is known, it is identified by an entry, such as "Design SR28".
If the referenced design is symmetrical (i.e., has v=b) the entry may be "SD" (self dual) meaning that
the dual design has the same parameters as the referenced design, but that they may not be combinatorially
equivalent; or the entry may be "TSD" (truly self dual) meaning that the design is not only self dual but is
isomorphic with the referenced design. An entry "D(x)" where x is 3, 4, or 5 means that the dual of the
referenced design is a partially balanced design in the sense of Bose and Nair (1939) with x associate classes.
Frequently, the dual of a given design is not recognizable as any well known type, but one can say something
about what it is not. An entry "not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3” means that the design is not a BIB design (not a
D(1)) and neither is it a partially balanced design with two or three associate classes. For entries that are
not explained here, the reader is referred to Table I. Glossary and Notation for an explanation.
The right-most heading is "Literature Sources", where the reader is referred to the references, which
are located after Table XIX. The reader is immediately impressed with the frequency of the reference
“BCS (1954)" as more than 350 of the designs of this tabulation are taken from this source. An intense
effort has been made to identify plans having the same parametric specification but combinatorially equiva-
lent plans. When such cases have been identified an indication of it has been made by first listing the first
publisher and in brackets listing the names of later writers who published combinatorially equivalent solu-
tions. For instance, the entry "P. M. Roy (1954) [Clatworthy (1956), John (1966)]" means that the solutions
published by Clatworthy (1956) and by John (1966), for the particular design being referenced, are combi-
natorially equivalent to the earlier solution by P. M. Roy (1954). For readers who have difficulty identifying
solutions as being the ones to which a source reference is given, there is the reminder that treatment symbols
were recast and plans rearranged frequently to put a plan into the standardized form of this volume. Also
the Literature Sources column is omitted from Table IV because, except for provision of multiple distinct
solutions for parametric specifications permitting nonunique solutions, the construction problem was
solved by Bose and his associates in 1952. The multiple solutions for SGD designs presented in this volume
were worked out by the author.
The "odd" numbered Tables V, VII, . . ., XIX provide detailed information about designs. For the GD
designs a referenced design is provided with the parametric specification
v, r, k, b, m, n, λ₁, and λ2;
for all other designs the values for a parametric specification
u, r, k, b, ni, Ai, (i=1, 2)
Pl Pl₂
P₁ =
P₂ =
P22-
P22
are listed. These are followed by values for the computational constants C1, C2, H, and ▲, and these are fol-
lowed by three efficiency factors E1, E2, and E (see chapter 3 for explanations.) The next entry is "Solution"
and opposite it an attempt has been made to provide information regarding the uniqueness and resolva-
bility of the particular plan which is presented. The next two entries are "Complement" and "Dual." The
5
\n--- PAGE 00000018 ---\nentries are varied and were explained previously for Tables IV, VI, . . ., XVIII. Entries whose meanings
are not clear are explained in Table 1. Glossary and Notation. The next entry is "Association Scheme."
If the association scheme is not standardized it is either given in detail or else a design Reference No. is
given where it may be found. If the association scheme is standardized a symbolic reference of the form
(m, n), T(n), Li(n) or C(v) will be given to Table II where it is given in detail. The blocks themselves serve
as association schemes for the Partial Geometry type of D(2) and for most of the miscellaneous designs. The
last entry is "Plan." Here the plan may be given in detail as was always done in BCS (1954); a shortened form
using the replication sets of Table III may be employed; a shortened form using cyclical development of
specified initial blocks may be displayed; or a word message may be used (1) for convenience, (2) for designs
for which N=bk=vr is so large the design is thought to have slight usefulness or (3) for cases for which the
construction may be extremely tedious. The need to find ways to cut publication costs has affected the pres-
entation of the plans, but a side benefit may be greater accuracy in some instances.
5. Special features of these tables. This publication has a few features that are new for tabulations of
incomplete block designs of type D(2). Something in excess of 95 percent of the designs of this volume have
been tested by electronic computer for validity of the plan as a D(2) design with the specified parameters
and association scheme. The computational constants C1, C2, H, and ▲ and the efficiency factors E1, E2, and E
were computed according to the formulas of Chapter III. The only cases where designs were not computer
verified for validity were those for which the plans were described by word messages.
...9
All the information that the reader now finds in the "odd” numbered Tables V, VII, . . XIX was trans-
ferred from the computer to magnetic tapes. These computer tapes became the input for programs developed
by the National Standard Reference Data System which essentially automatically controlled the type-
setting for these tables. Thus it is expected that a much smaller incidence of typographical errors will occur
in these particular tables.
6
\n--- PAGE 00000019 ---\nChapter II. The Classification of Designs
A. Group Divisible Designs
1. Introduction. The largest, simplest and perhaps most important class of D(2) designs is known as
group divisible. A group divisible (GD) design is a D(2) design for which the treatments may be divided
into m groups of n distinct treatments each such that treatments that belong to the same group are first
associates and two treatments that belong to different groups are second associates. The group divisible
association scheme is an mXn array of the treatment symbols (1, 2, mn=v, say) such that rows of
the array are groups.
(2.1)
For GD designs it is clear that
v = mn, n₁ =n-1, n₂ = n(m-1).
From the general condition n₁λ₁ + ngλ2 = r (k-1) we have for GD designs
(2.2)
-
-
(n − 1)λ, + n(m − 1)λ₂ = r(k − 1).
-
From the definitions of the parameters p¦k (i, j, k, = 1, 2) and consideration of the association scheme,
it is clear that
(2.3)
P₁ = (P}x) = ("
n 2
0
-
0
n(m-
n-1
(m²− 1)).
P₂ = (P}x) = (n° 1 n(m − 2)
= =
-22)).
1-1)).
For any GD design λ2 > 0 is a necessary condition, since if λ2=0 then treatments that belong to dif-
ferent groups never occur together in a block and the design breaks up into m disconnected sets of blocks,
a degenerate form of design (called a disconnected design) that does not permit estimation of the comparisons
of treatments belonging to different groups. When the zero-valued λ in a group divisible design is λ2, it may
always be put into the proper form with A₁ = 0 by renaming the associate classes. (When properly renamed
it is always true that p₁₂ =0.)
2. Combinatorial properties of group divisible designs. Bose and Connor (1952) have made a careful
study of the combinatorial properties of group divisible designs, and classified them into three subtypes
depending on the values assumed by the quantities
Q=r-λ₁ and rk — vλ₂ = P.
They considered the v× b incidence matrix N= (nij) of a group divisible design, defined in the usual way
as in section 4 of this chapter, and showed that the determinant of the treatment structure matrix, NN', is
(2.4)
-
-
|NN' = rk(rk — vλ2) m-1 (r — λ₁) m(n−1)¸
They classified GD designs into three types from a consideration of the expression for | NN' | as follows:
(1) Singular (S) if r — λ₁ = 0,
-
(2) Non-singular if rλ, >0
-
(2a) Semi-regular (SR) if rk — vλ2 = 0
(2b) Regular (R) if rk — vλ2 >0.
-
7
\n--- PAGE 00000020 ---\nWe list below several of the more important results from the Bose and Connor (1952) study of com-
binatorial properties of group divisible designs:
= 0.
(1) The necessary and sufficient condition for D(2) to be group divisible is that p₁₂ =0 or på½
Remark. To be consistent with the definition of the association scheme, we need to interchange the
associate classes when p₂ = 0. This involves an interchange of (1) the values of λ, and λ2, (2) the values
of n₁ and n2, (3) a reordering of the quantities p' in the matrices P₁ and P2. Once this has been done so
that it is pi, that assumes the value 0, then the expression rk-vλ2 may be correctly evaluated.
(2) For any GD design it is necessary that r-λ₁≥ 0 and rk — vλ2 ≥ 0.
(3) For a singular GD design (SGD) b ≥ m.
(4) For a SGD design (since r=λ₁), | NN' |=0.
(5) For a semi-regular group divisible (SRGD) design k is divisible by m. If k=cm, then every block
must contain c treatments from each group.
(6) For a SRGD design b≥ v−m+1.
(7) A necessary condition for the existence of a symmetrical (v=b) regular GD design is that
-
-
(r² — vλ2) m−1 (r — λ₁ ) m(n−1) = Pm-1Qm(n−1)
is a perfect square.
(8) If a symmetrical (v=b) regular GD design exists, then:
(a) If m is even, then P= r²-vλ2 must be a perfect square, and further, if m=4t+2 and n is
even, the Hilbert norm residue symbol (Q, (-1)),−1 for all odd primes p.
(b) If m is odd and n is even, Q=r-λ, is a perfect square and ((−1)ªnλ2, P)p=+1 for all odd
primes p, where a = m (m-1)/2.
(c) If m and n are both odd, ((−1)ªnλ2, P)p⋅ ((−1)³n, Q)p=+1 for all odd primes p, where
a=m(m-1)/2 and ß=n(n−1)/2.
In another paper, Connor (1952) studied the relations among the blocks of group divisible designs.
We give some of Connor's results in (9) through (13).
(9) For a SRGD design, it is necessary that A2 > A1.
(10) For a symmetrical (v=b) SRGD design, the number, sju, of treatments common to the jth and
uth blocks satisfies the inequalities
λι - siu =-λι +222/ (r- λι+υλ2).
(11) For a symmetrical (v=b) regular RGD design, the number, sju, of treatments common to the
jth and uth blocks satisfies the inequalities
λε(r-λι)/(r2 - υλ2) < sju = λι
when A, λ2. The inequalities are reversed when λ, <^2.
(12) If for a symmetrical regular GD design r²-vλ2 and A1-A2 are relatively prime, then any two
blocks have either A₁ or A2 treatments in common.
(13) If for a symmetrical regular GD design r²- vλ2 and A1 - λ₂ are relatively prime, then the blocks fall
into m groups of n blocks each, which are such that any two blocks from the same group contain λ, treatments
in common and any two blocks from different groups contain λ2 treatments in common.
Remark. Result (13) implies that under the stated conditions the RGD is self dual.
More recently, W. S. Saraf (1961) has published results on the structure and combinatorial properties
of semi-regular GD designs. Some of his results are stated in (14), (15), (17), (19), (20), and (21).
(14) For a SRGD design, the number, sju, of treatments common to any pair (jth, uth) of blocks satisfies
the inequalities
k— (r− λ1) ≤ Sju ≤ r− λ1 − k +:
2k[c(A,A₂+ 1) + kλ2]
η+υλε
8
\n--- PAGE 00000021 ---\nwhere c is an integer defined by k = cm.
--
Remark. When λ2-λ=1, eq (2.2) becomes
r-λ₁ = n(λ2λ1) = n
since for symmetrical SRGD designs r²-vλ2 = 0. Then it is seen that Connor's and Saraf's inequalities be-
come equivalent. Saraf claims superiority for his inequalities when λ2 − λ1 > 1.
-
(15) When in a SRGD design the number b of blocks assumes its smallest possible value, b=v-m+1,
any two blocks have k― (r− λ₁) treatments in common.
Definition. If we may separate the blocks of any design into r sets of t blocks each such that each set
contains exactly one replication of the treatments, the design is said to be resolvable. For resolvable designs
b=tr and v=tk. A set of blocks consisting of a complete replication of the treatments is called replication
group.
Results (16) and (18) are due to Bose and Connor (1952).
(16) For a resolvable semi-regular design b> v−m+r.
Definition. An affine resolvable design is a resolvable design for which any two blocks belonging to
different replication groups intersect in the same number of treatments.
(17) A SRGD design which is (1) resolvable and (2) has b-v-m+r is also affine resolvable (AR), and
conversely.
(18) For a regular GD design b≥ v and for a resolvable regular GD design b≥ v+r−1.
(19) For an affine resolvable semi-regular group divisible (ARSRGD) design, the common number of
treatments between any two blocks belonging to different replication groups is k/t and hence for ARSRGD
designs v must be divisible by t2.
(20) If the number b of blocks is even in an ARSRGD design, then (a) m must be a perfect square if
m and r are odd, while n must be a perfect square if m is odd and r is even.
(21) If the number b of blocks is odd in an ARSRGD design, then (a) c = k/m must be a perfect square if
m and r are odd; (b) nk must be a perfect square if m is odd and r is even; and (c) t must be a perfect square
if m is even and r is odd.
Remark. The results (20) and (21) arise from showing first that the quantity
t'nmkm(n-1)=v'nmkb-2r
must be a perfect square for ARSRGD designs.
(22) The necessary and sufficient condition for the existence in a SRGD design of two blocks such that
the number of treatments common to any other block and these two are equal, is that the two blocks contain
k-(r-λ) common treatments.
3. Construction of singular GD designs. Bose and Connor (1952) showed that a singular group divisible
design is always derivable from a corresponding BIB design (v*, b*, r*, k*, λ*) by replacing each treatment by
a group of n treatments. If the v* treatments of the BIB design are represented by the symbols 1,2,3, . . .,v*
and if each group of treatments replacing treatment a of the BIB design is represented by a₁, α2,
then the association scheme is represented by the v* n array as shown, wherein rows are groups.
.9
αn,
11 12 13
1n
21
22 23
2n
vi* ひ
​vn*
9
\n--- PAGE 00000022 ---\nThe parameters of the corresponding SGD are
(2.5)
v=nv*,
r=r*,
b=b*,
m=v*,
A₁ = r
k=nk*,
n = n,
λ2 = A*
where m,n 2. Thus SGD designs always have block sizes which are composite numbers > 4. In this volume
the tabled SGD designs have k=4, 6, 8, 9, 10.
For example, suppose v*b*=3, r*=k*=2 and λ*= 1, the smallest possible unreduced BIB design.
It has blocks 1 2, 13, 2 3. If we replace each treatment with n = 3 new treatments, we obtain the arrangement
which is the SGD design with
111213212223,
111213313233,
Assoc. Scheme
212223313233
r=2,
v=9, b=3, m=3,
k=6,
λ₁ = 2
11 12 13
n = 3,
λε=1
21 22
23
31
32 33
(2.6)
More generally, consider the whole class of unreduced BIB designs with parameters
v*=t,
b*=t(t−1)/2,
r*=t-1,
k*=2, λ*= 1,
whose solution consists of all possible pairs of the t treatments. Replacing each treatment with n new treat-
ments, we obtain the corresponding SGD design with parameters
(2.7)
where t⇒ 2.
v=nt,
b=t(t−1)/2,
r=t-1,
k=2n,
m=t,
λ₁ =t-1,
n=n,
λ₂ = 1,
Again, consider the BIB design (7,7,3,3,1) whose blocks are obtained by developing the initial block
(1,2,4) modulo 7. For convenience we write the blocks as columns
1
2
3
4
5 6 7
2 3
4
5 6
7 1
4 5 6 7 1 2 3.
Replacing each treatment with n=2 new treatments as indicated by the association scheme below, we
obtain
Assoc. Scheme
Blocks
1 8
1 8 2
9
4 11
2
9
2
9
3
10
5 12
3
10
3
10
4
11
6
13
4
11
4
11
5
12
7
14
10
\n--- PAGE 00000023 ---\n5_12
1 8
5
12 6 13
6
13
6
13
7 14
2
9
7
14
7
14
1
8 3 10
the SGD design with parameters
v = 14,
r=3,
b=7,
k=6,
λ=3,
m=7,
λ2 = 1,
n=2.
In BCS (1954) one plan or solution is presented for each of the 124 possible parametric specifications
for the SGD designs of the subclass defined by r≤ 10. Due to the combinatorial uniqueness of the balanced
incomplete block [briefly D(1)] designs on which the SGD designs necessarily depend, there are 93 cases
for which the BCS (1954) plans are unique (up to an isomorphism) and hence completely solved. In the
present publication, Tables IV and V contain multiple plans or solutions for 20 of the 28 cases for which it
is known that multiple (combinatorially distinct) plans are possible. There are two cases for which uniqueness
is undecided in that the uniqueness status of the corresponding D(1) design is still unknown.
Table IV does not contain a "Literature Sources" section because the source is either BCS (1954) or
the additional (solutions) plans are given for the first time in this volume.
4. Construction of semi-regular group divisible designs. Bose, Shrikhande and Bhattacharyya (1953)
[hereafter briefly referred to as BSB (1953)] have made a far-reaching but not exhaustive study of the con-
struction of group divisible designs. Their treatment of the SRGD designs is highly systematic and utilizes
in many instances the combinatorial arrangements known as orthogonal arrays. Their work forms the basic
source for all SRGD designs given by BCS (1954), which included all parametric specifications, except for
one inadvertent omission, of the subclass of SRGD designs having 3 ≤ k ≤ 10 and 2 < r < 10. For these 91
cases BCS (1954) gave one solution or plan each. However, these designs are also capable of multiple solu-
tions in 22 instances and these are indicated in our Table VI and presented in our Table VII. It was deter-
mined that there are 28 parametric specifications for SRGD designs which give unique solutions including
the 17 cases for which the blocks are of size k=2. The latter designs were constructed by Clatworthy (1955)
who also provided new solutions for designs SR 24, 29, 51, 110. Other distinct plans were taken from publica-
tions by Bose and Nair (1939), Connor (1952), BSB (1953) [to replace the invalid solution for BCS (1954)
design SR 31], P. M. Roy (1954b, 1954c), John (1966), Clatworthy (1967) and adapted for the standardization
of association schemes and mode of display utilized in the present publication. There are 56 cases for which
the uniqueness status is unknown.
บ
Every blocked design has a treatment structure and a block structure. If we construct the v× b incidence
matrix N (ny), where
nij
=
if the treatment labeled i occurs in the block labeled j
0 otherwise
the v× v matrix NN' (N' being the transpose of N) provides a description of the treatment structure of the
design while the b×b matrix N'N provides a description of its block structure (i.e., tells how many treat-
ments every pair of blocks has in common). The design whose incidence matrix is N' is called the dual of
the design with incidence matrix N. The design with incidence matrix N' may not be any recognizable design.
If the design with incidence matrix N' has the same parameters as the design with incidence matrix N, we
the original design is self dual. If the two designs are also isomorphic we say the original design is truly
self dual. We might remark that there do exist cases of D(2) designs that are self dual but nonisomorphic.
say
The SRGD designs having r, k≤ 10 are strongly related through their duals to the balanced incomplete
block [D(1)] designs in some instances, to various D(2) designs based on Latin square types of association
11
\n--- PAGE 00000024 ---\nschemes in a great many cases, and to D(3) designs in several other cases. This class of designs is also
characterized by a high frequency of resolvability among the plans.
Two constructions of SRGD designs are given below, but generally the reader should consult BSB (1953).
4a. Construction of SRGD designs by "block cutting" of BIB designs. Suppose we start with a BIB
design D with parameters (v*, b*, r*, k*, λ*= 1). A particular treatment occurs in r* blocks. Suppose we
delete treatment 0 and the r* blocks in which it occurs from the design D.
Ꮎ
x
x
x
0
x
x
x
•
0
x
x
r* blocks
Dropping the treatment
k-1 treatments
from these r* blocks we get an r*x (k-1) array which forms an association
scheme for the residual b*—r* blocks with the former blocks now playing the role of groups of the associa
tion scheme. The residual blocks of D are b*-r* in number and any two treatments that occur together in
a group of the association scheme never occur together in the residual blocks while any pair of treatments
belonging to different groups occur together in λ*= 1 block of the residual blocks. Consequently, the residual
blocks constitute a GD design with parameters
(2.8)
v = v* - 1,
r = r* - 1,
b=b*-r*,
k= k*,
m=r*,
n = k*-1,
λ=0,
λ₂ = 1.
Clearly, to keep the GD design from being nondegenerate, we must require of the BIB design that k* ≥3,
r* ≥3, b*-r* ≥ 3, λ *= 1.
We summarize the foregoing in the following
Theorem: By omitting a particular treatment 0 and all the r* blocks containing it from a BIB design with
A*= 1, we obtain a GD design with the parameters given in (2.8).
Remark. The GD designs obtained by this procedure of "block cutting" may be of the regular or semi-
regular types depending on the BIB designs with which we start.
Suppose we start with the family of BIB designs frequently referred to as the orthogonal series OS2
(or alternatively as the finite projective planes) given by
(2.9)
v*=b*=s²+s+1,
r*= k*=s+1,
λ*=1
where s=p", where n is a positive integer and p is a prime. We cut from a design (2.9) the r* blocks con-
taining an arbitrary treatment and the process leaves a residual set of blocks constituting a semi-regular
GD design with parameters
(2.10)
v=s²+s,
r=s,
b= s2,
k=s+1,
m=s+1,
n=s,
λ=0,
λε= 1.
The designs of family (2.10) arising from s = 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, and 9 have r≤ 10 and are catalogued by BCS (1954)
except for the case s=9 which was inadvertently omitted. All are included in our Tables VI and VII however.
1
12
\n--- PAGE 00000025 ---\n4b. Construction of SRGD designs by forming the dual of an affine resolvable BIB design. Consider an
ARBIB design with parameters (v*, b*, r*, k*, λ*). Recall that its blocks can be arranged in r* sets of t
blocks per set (b*=r*t) such that a set contains one exact replication of the treatments (so that v*= k*t).
Then since it is AR two blocks belonging to the same set intersect in µ₁ 0 common treatments while any
=
two blocks belonging to different sets intersect in µ2= k*2/v* common treatments. Hence, when we dualize
the BIB design, the t=b*/r* block symbols of a replication become the treatment symbols of a group and
these treatment symbols never occur together in any block of the dual, i.e., A₁ = µ₁ = 0 and л=t=b*/r*. On
the other hand, the block symbols for a pair of blocks belonging to different replications become second
associates in the dual and occur together as a treatment pair in λ2=µ2 blocks. Consequently, the dual is a
GD design with parameters
(2.11)
v=b*.
b=v*,
r=k*,
k=r*,
m=r*,
n=t=b*/r*,
A₁ = 0,
λ₂ = k*/t.
Recall that for an ARBIB design it is necessary that k*/t= k*2/* be integral.
For example, it is known that the family of finite Euclidean planes (or orthogonal series OSI) having
parameters
(2.12)
v* = se,
b*=s²+s,
r*=s+1,
k*=s, λ*= 1,
where s is a prime or prime power, are affine resolvable. For these designs t=s and the family of GD designs
obtained by forming their duals is given by
(2.13)
v=s²+s,
r = S,
b= s2,
m=s+1,
λ=0,
k=s+1,
n=s,
λ= 1.
We note that this is the same family as the semi-regular designs (2.10) previously obtained by "block cutting"
the orthogonal series OS2.
5. Construction of regular group divisible designs. BCS (1954) contains 68 constructions for the same
number of parametric specifications; these appear to depend heavily on BSB (1953) and upon the original
paper by Bose and Nair (1939). The BCS (1954) design designated R4 was found to be invalid but correctable
and their designs R56 and R60 contained typographical errors which were also corrected. The 68 designs
were also included in the present Tables VIII and IX. Besides these, other RGD designs were taken from the
literature and adapted to the present volume. Designs were taken from Bose and Nair (1939), Bannerjee
(1951), BSB (1953), P. M. Roy (1954c), Archbold (1955), Clatworthy (1955, 1956, 1967), Sprott (1955, 1959),
Archbold and Johnson (1956), Thompson (1956), Freeman (1957), Liu (1963), Liu and Chang (1964), David and
Wolock (1965), John (1966), Ikeda (1967, 1967b) and Masuyama (1967). Designs in this category appear to
be highly irregular in their block and treatment structures. Consequently, it does not seem likely that a few
general construction procedures are capable of yielding the plans provided here for 209 parametric speci-
fications having r, k≤ 10. The construction techniques employed in the literature display a wide spectrum
of ingenuity. This diversity may be explainable by the fact that the RGD designs are the only GD designs
for which the determinant |NN' | is positive.
Symmetrical regular group divisible designs very frequently have duals which are themselves RGD
designs with the same parameters, i.e., they are self-dual. Many such designs, both RGD and certain other
types of D(2) designs, have been identified by use of a theorem due to Hoffman (1963). However, in many
cases the author has been able to extend beyond Hoffman's "self-dual" conclusion to the stronger "truly
self-dual" conclusion. Entries to the "Dual Designs" columns of the "even" numbered Tables VIII, XII,
XIV, and XVIII and entries opposite "Dual” in the “odd” numbered Tables IX, XIII, XV, and XIX indicate
particular designs for which the above remarks apply.
Many published designs are isomorphic to others and we have attempted to give credit to the first
construction while indicating later isomorphic constructions by the author's name included in brackets
13
\n--- PAGE 00000026 ---\nwhen citing source references in Table VIII. Having thus thinned out the number of constructions, we
identified 39 cases of RGD designs whose parametric specifications possess nonunique solutions. There
are 58 identifiable cases for which the solutions are unique (up to an isomorphism); of these, 41 are cases
for which the design has block size k=2.
B. Triangular Designs
1. Definition. A partially balanced design with two associate classes is said to be triangular if the
number of treatments is v=n(n−1)/2 and the association scheme is an array of n rows and n columns with
the following properties:
(i) The positions in the principal diagonal (running from upper left-hand to lower right-hand corner) are
left blank.
(ii) The n(n-1)/2 positions above the principal diagonal are filled by the numbers 1, 2, . . .,n(n-1)/2
corresponding to the treatments.
(iii) The n(n-1)/2 positions below the principal diagonal are filled so that the array is symmetrical
about the principal diagonal.
(iv) For any treatment i the first associates are exactly those treatments which lie in the same rows
(or in the same columns) as i.
The following relations clearly hold:
(2.14)
v=n(n-1)/2,
n₁ =2(n-2),
n₂ = (n-2) (n-3)/2,
(2.15)
P₁=
n-2
=
n-3
P₂ =
:= (2n
4
2n-8
n-
-3
3-4)/2),
(n-3) (n-4)/2
2n-8
(n−4) (n−5)/2
-5)/2)
where n ≥ 5. (The case n = 4 has pi₂ =0 so that it is also of the group divisible type and is classified in this
way. We note further that for n=2, or 3, n₂ = 0 so that there is only one associate class and the design, if it
exists, degenerates to the D(1) design.)
We now state an important result which evolved from the research of Connor (1958), Shrikhande (1959a),
Chang (1959) and Hoffman (1960):
If an association scheme has parameters (2.14) and (2.15) and n=5, 6, 7 or n≥9 it is unique (up to an
isomorphism); if n=8 there are exactly four nonisomorphic association schemes.
2. Elementary constructions for some families of triangular designs. Several families of triangular designs
are given in this section along with their constructions. Because n₁, n2, Pjk (i, j, k = 1, 2) are uniquely deter-
mined by the parameter n, they are omitted from the parametric expressions for the 12 families given below.
(1) Designs with k=2, λ₁=1, λ2=0 [Clatworthy (1955)]. Members of the family
(2.16)
v=n(n-1)/2,
r=2(n-2),
b=n(n−1) (n − 2)/2, λ₁ = 1,
k=2,
A2=0,n5
are constructed by pairing treatment 0(0=1, 2, . . ., v) with each of its n₁ first associates exactly once
(A₁ = 1).
(2) Designs with k=2, λ₁ =0, λ2=1 [Clatworthy (1955)]. A second family of triangular designs with two
treatments per block is specified by
(2.17)
v=n(n−1)/2,
b=n(n-1) (n-2) (n-3)/8,
A₁ = 0,
r= (n-2) (n-3)/2,
k=2,
λ2 = 1,
1
14
\n--- PAGE 00000027 ---\nwhere n 5. To construct these designs pair treatment (0=1, 2, . . ., v) with each of its n2 second
associates exactly once (A₁ =0, λ₂ = 1).
(3) Designs with k=3, λ₁ = 1, λ=0 [Clatworthy (1956)]. A general procedure for construction of the
triangular designs with
(2.18)
v=n(n-1)/2,
r=n-2,
b= n(n-1) (n − 2)/6,
k=3,
λ=1,
λ2=0,
n≥5
is the following: Form all possible treatment-triplets by writing first a treatment-pair
1
2 3
4
1
5
6
7
2 5
*
8
9
10
3 6 8
4 7 9 10
lying in the same row of the association scheme and adding to the pair the treatment lying in the other row
containing the first treatment of the pair and in the column containing the second treatment of the pair. For
example, when n=5
v = 10, r=3,
k=3,
b=10,
A₁ = 1,
λ2=0
and the blocks are
1 1 1 2 2 3 5 5 6 8
2 3 4
3 4
4
6 7 7 9
5 6 7 8 9 10
8 9
10
10
(4) The family of triangular doubly-linked block designs [Shrikhande (1952), Youden (1951)]. Youden
has given the name "linked blocks" to designs for which every pair of blocks has the same number of treat-
ments in common. Shrikhande has shown that if the BIB design with parameters
v* = (n − 1) (n − 2)/2,
b*=n(n-1)/2,
r*=n, k*=n-2,
A*=2
exists, then its dual will always be a D(2) design. Furthermore, these duals, which are doubly linked block
designs, are of the triangular type and have parameters
(2.19)
v=n(n-1)/2,
r=n-2,
b= (n−1)(n−2)/2,
k=n,
λ=1,
λ=2.
The cases n=5, 6, 9, and 11 lead to known designs, but the cases n=7, 8, 10, 12, 14, 15, 17, and 19 are
impossible, and n = 13, 16, 18, 20 are unsolved.
15
\n--- PAGE 00000028 ---\n(5) The family of triangular singly-linked block designs. Shrikhande (1952) and Bose and Shimamoto
(1952) gave the family of triangular designs with
(2.20)
v=n(n-1)/2,
r=2,
b=n,
k=n-1,
A₁ = 1,
λ=0,
n≥ 5.
These designs may be constructed by taking the rows (or columns) of the association scheme as blocks.
They are clearly singly-linked blocks designs and so their duals are necessarily BIB designs with
v*=n,
b*=n(n-1)/2,
r*=n−1,
k*=2, λ*= 1,
which are recognized as the subfamily of unreduced BIB designs with k=2. Clearly, designs of either family
may be constructed for n > 5.
(6) A family of triangular designs due to Chang, Liu, and Liu (1965) and to M. Masuyama (1965). Ap-
parently independently, the family of designs with
v=n(n-1)/2,
(2.21)
r=2(n-2),
was constructed as follows.
b= n(n-1),
A₁ =n-3,
k=n-2,
12 = 0.
n≥ 5
We note that the row of the triangular association scheme has n-1 treatments and that the number
n-l
of distinct blocks, each of size k=n-2, that can be formed from a row is
=n-1, each treatment
n- -2
of the row occurring n-2 times, and each pair of treatments of the row occurring n-3 times. Since a
treatment accurs in 2 rows of the association scheme, r=2(n-2) and since each row gives rise to n— -1
blocks, the total number of blocks is b=n(n−1). The treatments not lying in the same rows (or columns)
never occur together in any block so that λ₂ = 0, while treatments in the same row or column of the association
scheme occur together in n-3 blocks. Thus it is clear that for n 5 the designs of family (2.21) can always
be constructed.
For example, consider the case n=5, for which
v = 10, r=6,
k=3, b=20,
11 =2,
λε= 1.
Now Design T10, Solution 1 has these parameters but the plan is obtained by duplicating the plan of Design
T9, Solution 1, i.e., each of the blocks (displayed in columns) of the following set of ten occurs twice
1 1 1
2 2
3 5 5 6 8
2
3 4 3
4
4 6 7 7 9
5 6
7
8 9
10
8 9 10
10
However, the present method of solution yields 20=b distinct blocks:
1 1 1 2 1 1 1 5 2 2 2 5 3
3
3 6 4 4
4 7
2 2 3 3 5 5 6 6 5 5 8 8 6
6
8
8 7
799
3 4 4 4 6 7
7789998
10 10 10 9 10 10 10
16
\n--- PAGE 00000029 ---\nThus we have evidence that while the case n=5 has a unique association scheme, this parametric speci-
fication has a pair of non-isomorphic solutions.
(7) A family of triangular designs due to C. W. Liu (1963). Corresponding to any treatment x(x=1,
2,..., v) of the triangular association scheme with parameter n we form a block of size n by taking as treat-
ments of the block the n ith associates of treatment x(i=1, 2). The b=v=n(n-1)/2 blocks thus formed
have each treatment appearing r=n₁ times in blocks of size k=ni. A pair of treatments that are first associates
appear together in p blocks while second associates occur together in på blocks. Thus
(2.22)
v=b=n(n-1)/2,
r=k=ni, λ₁ = Pi
P₁₁ =λ2,
n≥ 5.
When we construct blocks corresponding to treatment x(x=1, 2, . . ., v) by taking all its first asso-
ciates we get the triangular design
v=b=n(n-1)/2,
(2.23)
r=k=n₁=2(n-2),
λ₁ =n-2,
λε=4,
n≥5
which gives, for r≤ 10,
v = b
r=k
n
λι
λε
Ref. No.
10
15
21
10
680
567
5
3
4
T60
6
4
4
BIB design
7
5
4
T95
Constructing blocks corresponding to the second associates of an arbitrary treatment x gives
the triangular design
(2.24)
which yields, for r≤ 10,
v=b=n(n-1)/2,
r=k=(n−2) (n−3)/2,
λ₁ = (n−3) (n−4)/2,
λ2 = (n−4) (n−5)/2,
n≥ 5
v=b
r=k
n
λι
λε
Ref. No.
10
15
21
10
300
6
013
136
567
T9
T61
T94
(8) A family of triangular designs due to M. Masuyama (1965). This family is given by
v=n(n−1)/2,
(2.25)
r= (n-2)²,
b=n(n-1) (n−2)/2,
k=n-2,
λ₁ = (n−3) (n − 4)/2,
λ2=4,
n≥ 5.
We form blocks of size k=n-2 by taking n-3 treatments lying in the same row (or column) of the associa-
tion scheme and one treatment that lies neither in the same row nor in the same column as the first (n-3)
treatments. Do this for all possible combinations,
n- 1
n
-
n-1
·(n = 3) = (^~¹). of treatments of each row. This yields
-
(">¹) = n(n−1) (n − 2)/2 = b blocks. The only case with r≤ 10 arises when n=5. It is Design T13 of
2
Table XI and has parameters
v = 10, b=30,
A₁ = 1, n=5,
r=9,
k=3,
λ2=4,
17
\n--- PAGE 00000030 ---\nand the following blocks:
1
2
10
2 3
7
4 7 8
6 7 2
1
3
9
2
4
6
4
9
6
6
8
4
1
4
8
21
5
10
4
10
5
6
10
2
1
5
10
2
8
7
5
6
4
7
9
3
1
6
9
2 9
6
5
7 3
7
10
2
1
7
8
3
4
5
5
8
4
8
9
1
3
6
9
5 9 3
8
10
1
31
8
7
9
10
1
3
10
5
(9) A family due to Masuyama (1965). Suppose we can construct a triangular design with parameters
v', b', r', k', λi, λź, ní, n½, Pjk (i=1, 2) and a BIB design with parameters v"=v', k" = k', b", r",λ". Then
by adjoining the two sets of blocks we have the triangular design with parameters
(2.26)
v=v'=v",
b=b'+b",
r=r' + r", k=k'=k",
λι = λ"+ λί,
λε= λ" + λ.
=
An example of such a design arises from combining the triangular design with v' 10, r'=2, k' = 4,
b'=5, n=5, λ=1, λ=0 and the BIB design (v", b", r", k", λ") = (10, 15, 6, 4, 2) to obtain a solution of
(2.27)
v = 10,
b=20,
A₁ = 3,
r=8,
k=4,
12=2,
n=5.
Another way of stating the basis for this construction is the following: v treatments are replicated
r=r₁₂ times in b=b₁+ b₂ blocks such that every pair of treatments occurs exactly λ times. If b₁ blocks
constitute a triangular design with r₁ replications, the remaining b₂ blocks are a triangular design in 2
replications.
(10) Family due to Chang, Liu and Liu (1965). If a triangular design with parameters
v', r', k', b', ní, X, (P)'
and a second triangular design with parameters
v" = v', r", k″ = k', b", n", \"', (pik)" (i, j, k=1, 2)
have identical triangular association schemes, then the adjoined design is triangular, with the same asso-
ciation scheme and parameters
b=b'+b",
(2.28)
v=v'=v",
λ= λή + λ"
r=r'+r",
k= k' = k",
λ2 = λ2 + x2,
n≥ 5
18
\n--- PAGE 00000031 ---\nprovided λ, λ2. An example is the use of a solution from family (5), duplicated, for
v' = 10=b',
r'=k' = 4,
λ = 2,
λ=0
and the complement of the solution from family (7) with n=5, k=6 for
v"=b" = 10, r"=k"=4,
n=5,
X" = 1,
X2=2
to obtain a solution for
v = 10, r=8, k=4,
b=20,
n=5, λ=3,
12 = 2.
(11) Other triangular designs derived from the preceding constructions. Given any triangular design
that is constructed by any one of the ten procedures described above, we may derive another triangular
design by taking the complement of the given design. If the given design has parameters, v, b, r, k, λi, ni,
Pix i=1, 2, then the complementary design has parameters
v' = v,
(2.29)
r'=b-r,
b' = b,
k'=v-k,
λ=b-2r+λ1,
ni
=ni,
λ=b-2r+λ2,
(Pix)'=Pik
i=1, 2 and n≥ 5.
(12) A family due to M. Masuyama (1965). When n is even, one may construct the triangular design
with parameters
(2.30)
v=n(n-1)/2,
b= (n−1)(n−3) (n−5) . . . 3 ∙ 1,
•
...
λ₁ = 0,
r= (n-3)(n-5)... 3.1,
k=n/2,
λ2 = (n−5) (n−7). 3
•
•
by forming blocks no two of whose treatments lie in the same row or column of the association scheme.
The case n=6 gives design T16 of Tables X and XI, while n ≥8 gives designs with r≥ 15.
The simple constructions given above provide quick constructions for some of the 100 parametric speci-
fications for triangular designs with r, k≤ 10 and listed in Tables X and XI. Other triangular designs, as
well as some of these simple ones, may also be constructed by mathematically sophisticated procedures.
Appropriate references to sources are given in Table X.
BCS (1954) provided 36 triangular designs having 3 ≤ k ≤ 10 and 2 < r < 10. Clatworthy (1956) was able
to expand the original listing to 76 designs by construction of new designs with k=2 and 3 and by including
n-plicates of solutions provided by BCS (1954). In the early 1960's three researchers at Peking University,
under the leadership of C. W. Liu, constructed many new triangular designs which have been included,
and Masuyama (1965) published new procedures for constructing triangular designs, several of which
were published the same year by the Chinese group. Shrikhande (1965), Ray-Chaudhuri (1962), (1965),
Seiden (1961), (1963) also constructed new triangular designs. Using a newly constructed D(1) design with
v=b=56,r=k=11 and λ=2 by Hall, Lane and Wales (1968), the author has constructed the new triangular
design T91.
It can be shown that 57 of the 100 parametric specifications for triangular designs given in Tables X
and XI lead to plans that are unique (up to an isomorphism). Of the remaining 43 parametric specifications
nonuniqueness has been established in 11 cases by the construction of 2 or 3 distinct plans for each.
Due to the fact that several of the triangular designs are of the linked blocks type, they are related to
balanced incomplete block designs through their duals, and consequently several others have duals which
are SGD designs. Among the triangular designs there exists ample evidence that a symmetrical triangular
design is not necessarily self-dual or truly self-dual as there are 5 cases for which the duals are SGD designs.
There are others which are truly self-dual and still others for which the weaker assertion, self-dual, can be
made.
19
\n--- PAGE 00000032 ---\nC. Latin Square Type Li (n) Designs
1. Introduction. Consider a set of v=n2 treatments and an association scheme which consists of an
nxn array of the distinct treatment symbols 1, 2, . . ., v=n onto which a set of i-2 mutually orthogonal
Latin squares are superposed. Let the n, first associates of a treatment a consist of the n-1 other treat-
ments lying in the same row of the array with a, the set of n 1 other treatments in the same column with
-
a, and the n-1 other treatments corresponding to the same letter as a in each of the Latin squares. All
other treatments are second associates of a. Such an association scheme is called a Latin square type L₁(n)
association scheme.
A D(2) design based on a Latin square type Li(n) association scheme is called a Latin square type L₁(n)
design.
For these association schemes it is clear that
(2.31)
v = n²,
n₁ = i(n-1),
n₂ = (n-1) (n − i + 1)
i2 - 3i+n
-
P₁ =
33)
(2.32)
(2.33)
P2
=
--
(i − 1) (n − i + 1) (n-i) (n − i + 1))
-
(i (i-1)
-
i(n-i)
-
\i(n−i) (n− i )² + i − 2,
From these relations and the definition it is clear that certain restrictions on the parameters i and n
are necessary. First of all, for a given n the definition depends upon the existence of a set of mutually
orthogonal Latin squares so that for positive integral values of n for which a maximum number of squares
exist 0i-2<n-1 or 2 ≤ i ≤ n + 1. We note that when in+1, n₂ becomes 0, and any design based
on such an association scheme would necessarily degenerate to a D(1) design. If i=n then p₁₂=0 and the
design, if it exists, must be of GD type. To avoid both these possibilities we shall require i ≤ n−1. Clearly,
n> 3. Thus, the existence of a Latin square type Li(n) association scheme presupposes the existence of
a set of i-2 mutually orthogonal squares of size n and the parameters n and i are subject to the restrictions
(2.34)
n≥ 3,
2≤i≤n-1.
10,
When n=6, the only possible value for i is i=2, so that only the L2 (6) type scheme exists. When n=
we can presently construct Latin square type L₁(10) association schemes for i=2, 3, and 4 as the best we
can do is construct a pair of mutually orthogonal Latin squares of size 10. When n=12 we can construct
schemes for 2 ≤ i ≤7. In general, when n is a prime or a power of a prime, i can attain the maximum value,
n-1, but when n is a composite nonprime power, then the maximum value that i can attain is dependent
on n and may not be as large as n-1.
When i=2, Shrikhande (1959) has shown that the L2 (n) association scheme is unique, except when
n=4, i.e., the set of parameters (2.31), (2.32), and (2.33) can only specify an L2 (n), n # 4, type association
scheme. For n=4 it is known that there exists another association scheme having parameters
v=16, n₁ =6, n2=9,
P₁ = (23), P₂ = (24).
6
When i=3 the uniqueness of the Latin square type Lз(n) association scheme holds for n=3, but not
for n=4, 5, and 6. The last results were communicated to the author by J. J. Seidel.
The association schemes of Latin square type Li(n) used in this volume are, with but one exception,
standardization association schemes which are tabled in section C of Table II.
2. Constructions. BCS (1954) listed only 20 Latin square type Li(n) designs and for these i=2 or 3.
Electronic computer verification programs uncovered that the plans for designs designated by them as LS15
and LS19 are invalid and that the plan for their LS14 contains a typographical error (the corrected third
20
\n--- PAGE 00000033 ---\nblock being 12 5 14). Design LS15 was corrected and the 19 valid plans have been included in Tables
XII and XIII of the present volume. Even though the square lattice designs of Yates (1936), (1937) may be
classified as D(2) designs based on Latin square association schemes, they were omitted from the BCS (1954)
collection. They are included here because (a) they are valid designs of this classification (b) they are useful
experimental arrangements and hence of potential interest to our readers, and (c) their inclusion brings out,
through their duals, strong combinatorial relationships with many of the SRGD designs. Clatworthy (1956)
expanded the listing of D(2) designs with r, k ≤ 10 based on Latin square type L¡(n) association schemes to
111 parametric specifications by adding to the BCS (1954) listing the designs of the same type with k=2,
by including the lattice designs of Yates, by including n-plicate designs built up from the BCS (1954) designs
and the Yates designs, and by including three newly constructed designs. The present volume contains an
expanded listing beyond Clatworthy's (1956) enumeration. Starting with the latter enumeration, the author
added new designs taken from publications by Bose and Nair (1939) [but omitted from the BCS (1954) list]
P. M. Roy (1954c), Vartak (1955), Shrikhande (1959), Liu (1963), Chang and Liu (1964), Clatworthy (1967)
and five new designs [LS36, LS40, LS44, LS61, LS64] constructed by the author and published here for the
first time. The construction procedures will not be described here, but the reader is referred to the above
references, especially Clatworthy (1967) where very general construction procedures are presented. These
are generalizations of some designs constructed by Chang and Liu (1964), and the generalizations are interest-
ing not only for themselves and a few new resulting designs, but because of the relationships of the present
designs to certain subclasses of GD designs that are brought to light.
The present D(2) designs are strongly related to certain SRGD designs and to D(3) designs.
Of the 146 parametric specifications listed in Tables XII and XIII, there are 56 instances in which the
plans are unique (up to an isomorphism) and 36 cases for which multiple distinct solutions are possible,
leaving 65 cases for which their uniqueness status is unsettled.
D. Cyclic Designs
1. Introduction. Let the treatments be designated by the integers 1, 2, . v. Let the first associates
of treatment i be given by
i+d₁, it d₂, . . .,i+dn,
+
(mod v),
provided the d's satisfy the following conditions:
(1) The d's are all different and 0<d; < v,j=1,2, . . ., n₁;
-
d¡
..
1
dn, occurs a times whereas each of the numbers e₁,e2,
·
., en, occurs ẞ times, where
(2) Among the n₁(n₁ − 1) differences d; — d, (j, j' = 1, 2 . . ., n₁;j #j') reduced mod v, each of the
numbers d₁,d₂,
a ẞ and where
d₁,d2, . . ., dn,, e₁,e2,..., eng
are the numbers 1,2, . . ., v. Such an association scheme is said to be cyclic. A D(2) design whose associa
tion scheme is cyclic is called a cyclic design, or a D(2) design based on a cyclic association scheme.
Remark. To reduce an integer mod v subtract from it a suitable multiple of v, so that the reduced integer
xv and positive, which is an unconventional procedure for retention of treatment symbols 1, 2, . . ., v.
A D(2) design for which the relationships among the v treatments are given by the cyclic association
scheme defined above is itself known as a cyclic type of partially balanced design.
For cyclic designs it is clearly necessary that
(2.35)
n₁a+n₂ẞ=n₁ (n₁ — 1).
-
21
\n--- PAGE 00000034 ---\nThe parameters of the second kind are determined by a, ß, (a B), n, and n₂ so that
(2.36)
Pi
=
=(α
α η-α-1
m-m+a+1),
P₁ =
P₁ = (B m-B
m-n₁+B-1/
+B-1).
2. Construction of cyclic designs. Some constructions of cyclic designs are given below.
=
(1) The "star" association scheme. Consider the set d₁ =2, d₂-3 modulo 5. Among the n₁ (n₁-1)=2
differences the numbers d₁ =2 and d₂=3 each occur a=0 times, while the differences e₁ = 1 and e₂ = 4
each occurs ẞ=1 time. Clearly n₁ =2=n₂ and a cyclic type association scheme is specified by the param-
eters v=5, n₁ = n2=2, α=0, B=1. The first associates of treatment i (i=1,2,3,4,5) are given by
4
3
i:i+2,i+3.
Geometrically, this association scheme may be displayed as a five-pointed star where vertices (treatments)
joined by lines are first associates and vertices not joined by a straight line are second associates. The para-
meters of the second kind are given by
P₁₁₁)
= (¦ ¦)
and PG)
«
We give below six designs with v=5, n₁=n2=2, a=0, ẞ=1 and the "star" cyclic association scheme
[taken from Clatworthy (1956)].
Cyclic designs with v=5, n₁ = n₂ = 2
b
r
k
λι
λε
1
0
(1, 3) mod 5
2
222333
260369
15
10
15
552505
10
4
1242
4
11124
2
5
(2) Cyclic designs with v=13. Consider the set
Blocks
[(1, 3), (1, 3), (1, 2)] mod 5
[(1, 3)(1, 3), (1, 3), (1, 3), (1, 2)] mod 5
(1, 2, 4) mod 5
[(1, 2, 4), (1, 2, 4)] mod 5
[(1, 2, 4), (1, 2, 4), (1, 2, 5)] mod 5
d₁ = 2, d₂ = 5,
ds = 6,
d₁ = 7,
ds= 8,
de = 11.
The n₁(n-1)= 30 differences are:
10,
9,
8,
7,
4
3,
12,
11,
10,
7
4.
1,
12, 11,
8
22
\n--- PAGE 00000035 ---\n5.
9
2,
12,
1,
6,
3,
2.
1,
10
9,
6,
5,
4.
3
The numbers d (i=1, 2, . . ., 6) each occur a = 2 times, and the numbers e₁ = 1, e2=3, e3=4, e4=9,
es=10, es= 12 each occurs ẞ=3 times. The association scheme is given by listing the first associates of
treatment i, i(i=1, 2, . . ., 13)
i: i+2, i+5, i+6, i+7, i +8, i + 11.
The parameters of the second kind are given by
P(23) and P-3 3).
=
=
Some designs with the above association scheme and parameters v=13, n₁ = n2=6, a=2, ẞ=3 are
the following [taken from Clatworthy (1956) and Bose, Clatworthy, and Shrikhande (1954)].
Cyclic designs with v= 13, n₁ = n₂ =6
b
T
k
λι
λ2
39
83882333
13
26
39
39
26
13
13
000023237
1123113
233334679
636990678
13
10
10
4
8
Blocks
[(1, 3), (1, 6), (1, 7)] mod 13
(1, 3, 9) mod 13
[(1, 3, 9), (1, 3, 9)] mod 13
[(1, 3, 9), (1, 3, 9), (1, 3, 9)] mod 13
[(1, 12, 13), (3, 10, 13), (4, 9, 13)] mod 13
[(1, 4, 12, 13), (1, 4, 10, 13)] mod 13
(1, 2, 4, 7, 9, 13) mod 13
(1, 2, 4, 6, 7, 8, 12) mod 13
(1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12) mod 13
(3) Cyclic designs with v=17. The cyclic association scheme with parameters
has
v=17,
n₁ = n₂ = 8,
a=3,
B=4
P₁ = (³·4)
·
3
and
P₂ = (+ 1),
4 4
3
and the scheme may be written in terms of the first associates of treatment i (i = 1,2,
i+3, i+5, i+6, i +7, i + 10, i + 11, i + 12, i + 14.
The known cyclic designs having this association scheme are listed below.
Cyclic designs with v=17, n₁ = n₂ = 8
b
68
3445
L
k
λι
λε
Blocks
..
., 17)
[(1, 4), (1, 6), (1, 7), (1, 8)] mod 17
[(1, 4, 5, 17), (1, 8, 10, 16)] mod 17
(1, 2, 4, 8, 9, 13, 15, 16) mod 17
(1, 4, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12, 13, 15) mod 17
0234
4
1145
2489
8888
5
17
17
9
23
\n--- PAGE 00000036 ---\nThe listing of D(2) designs based on cyclic association schemes by BCS (1954) consisted of only 10
designs and they belonged to the subclass limited by 3 r, k≤ 10. Tables XIV and XV of the present volume
contain 29 parametric specifications, most of the expansion being accounted for by designs with k=2 con-
structed by Clatworthy (1955) and four designs with v=5 and k=3 constructed by Clatworthy (1956). Other
cyclic designs have been published by P. M. Roy (1954a), Liu and Chang (1964) and John (1966).
E. Partially Balanced Designs Based on Partial Geometries
1. Partial geometries. A partial geometry (r, k, t) has been defined by Bose (1963) as a system of unde-
fined points and lines and an undefined relation called incidence satisfying the following four axioms:
(i) Any two points are incident with not more than one line.
(ii) Each point is incident with r lines.
(iii) Each line is incident with k points.
(iv) If the point P is not incident with the line l, then there pass through P exactly t lines (t ≥ 1) inter-
secting l.
From this beginning Bose showed that the number v of points and the number b of lines in the partial
geometry
(2.37)
(2.38)
v=k[(r−1) (k−1)+t]/t
b=r[(r-1) (k-1)+t]/t.
He also proved that a necessary condition for the existence of a partial geometry (r, k, t) is that the number
(2.39)
a=rk (r−1) (k−1)/t (k+r-t-1)
is integral.
Another of Bose's basic results is the following: Given a partial geometry (r, k, t) there exists a dual
partial geometry (k, r, t) obtained by interchanging the roles of points and lines in the given geometry.
The partial geometry (r, k, t) has an association scheme wherein two points are first associates if
they are incident with a line of the geometry and they are second associates if they are not incident with
a line.
It then follows from Bose (1963) that the association scheme of a partial geometry (r, k, t) has parameters
n₁ = r(k-1), n₂ = (r− 1) (k − 1) (kt)/t,
(2.40)
(2.41)
(2.42)
-
p₁₁ = (t 1) (r − 1) + k − 2, p₁₁ = rt,
l<t<r, 1 ≤ t≤ k.
-
Then it becomes evident that if a partial geometry (r, k, t) exists, it is a D(2) design with parameters
r, k, λ₁ = 1, λ2=0 and having other parameters given by (2.37), (2.38), (2.40), and (2.41). Thus the corre-
sponding D(2) design would have parameters
v = k[ (r − 1 ) (k − 1) + t]/t, r = r, d₁ = 1,
-
b = r[ (r − 1) (k − 1) + t]/t, k = k, λ2 = 0,
-
-
n₁ = r(k − 1), n₂ = (r − 1) (k − 1) (k − t)/t,
(t − 1) (r− 1) + k − 2
(2.43)
P₁
1
= ((t − 1 ) (r
=
=
rt
r(k-t-1)
(r-1) (kt)
(r-1) (kt) (k-t-
1 − 1)/t) ·
[(r-1) (k-1) (k−2t)+t(rt-k)]/t
24
\n--- PAGE 00000037 ---\nwherein
1 <t≤r, 1 ≤ t≤ k.
The reader can find interesting relations between Bose's results and publications by Bose and Clatworthy
(1955) which contains the three-parameter family of designs specified by (2.43) and results closely related
to the association scheme of the partial geometry and by Connor and Clatworthy (1954) on which the integral
condition (2.39) on a depends.
The reader should be warned that it has not yet been established that any design of type D(2) having
parameters given by (2.43) is necessarily a partial geometry.
2. Partial geometries which are D(2) designs. It is known (Bose (1963)) that a partial geometry (r, k,
r-1), r≥2 [which is known in certain mathematical areas as a net (r, k) of degree r and order k] is the
same as the lattice design of r replications of Yates (1936) or a D(2) design with blocks of size k=r and r
replications based on the Latin square type L,(r) association scheme. Due to the duality theorem and the
fact that certain SRGD designs and finite Euclidian planes can be constructed from certain L,(n) associ-
ation schemes [Clatworthy (1967)], it follows that many designs we have classified as SRGD designs and
LS designs are also partial geometries.
The partial geometries (2, k, 2), where k=n-1, are known to be triangular designs in which the
blocks are the n rows (columns) of the triangular association scheme with parameter n, i.e., the family
(2.20) of triangular designs of section B of this chapter. The duals of these designs are the well known
unreduced BIB designs of the family
v=n, b= n(n-1)/2,
r=n-1, k = 2, λ = 1.
Thus the unreduced BIB designs with k=2 and certain triangular designs could be classified as partial
geometries.
Certain other designs first constructed by Clatworthy (1954), Bose and Clatworthy (1955), Seiden (1961),
Ray-Chaudhuri (1962), Shrikhande (1965) and Benson (1966) are also known to be partial geometries. [See
the Literature Sources of Table XVI for identification of particular cases with r and k less than 10.]
3. The simple type of D(2) design and the present classification of designs. The design category of BCS
(1954) having one λ equal to zero and labeled "simple" was a convenience classification into which designs
not otherwise classified could be put in 1954. The first three of these designs [Sl. 1, 2 and 3] have long been
known to be invalid and were discarded. Designs Sl. 18, Sl. 19, Sl. 20 and Sl. 26 also had invalid solutions
which were detected by the National Bureau of Standards computer program devised to test the validity
of designs considered for this volume. Designs Sl. 18, Sl. 19, Sl. 20 and Sl. 26 were reconstructed to provide
valid solutions. Except for the discarded Design Sl. 1, all the simple designs of BCS (1954) having λ, = 1
and λ=0 can be classified as partial geometries. Hence these designs and some new partial geometries
[namely, designs PG 1, PG 5, PG 8, PG 16, and PG 17] were put together to form the new classification
of our Tables XVI and XVII for partially balanced designs based on partial geometries. While there are
many partial geometries which are not included in Tables XVI and XVII, many that have r and k less than
or equal to ten are included in other classifications.
-
Those simple designs of BCS (1954) for which A, 2 and λ=0 were constructed in all cases by repli-
cating entire plans of our partial geometries. Since they cannot be classified as partial geometries (for which
A₁ = 1), a new category called Miscellaneous was formed to include these and other new designs for which
the other classifications are not appropriate.
F. Miscellaneous D(2) Designs
The 46 designs of this category are truly miscellaneous. In 17 instances they arise from repetitions of the
whole plan of a partial geometry, thus accounting for those simple type designs of BCS (1954) that were not
accounted for by the partial geometries. There are 7 instances of designs with k=2 from the work of Clat-
worthy (1955) and Liu and Chang (1964). In 5 instances the designs are new [M13, M16, M17, M18, M32],
being published here for the first time. The remaining designs come from scattered publications including
25
\n--- PAGE 00000038 ---\nBose and Nair (1939), Clatworthy (1956), Ray-Chaudhuri (1962), Liu (1963), Liu and Chang (1964), Preece
(1966), Mesner (1967) and Bhagwandas (1968).
Most of the miscellaneous designs are characterized by one zero-valued A but there are 8 instances of
designs that have both A's different from zero. In the latter case the association schemes are of no assistance
in analyzing data arising from these designs. The reader is referred to Rao (1947) who gives general methods
for analysis of incomplete block designs. For those designs having one zero-valued λ the blocks can serve
as association schemes, and then the analysis procedures found in BCS (1954) for the simple type of D(2)
designs are appropriate.
Little is known about uniqueness among the plans for miscellaneous designs. In 21 instances the para-
metric specifications for designs are known to be capable of multiple distinct solutions. Thus the uniqueness
status is an open question for 25 of the 46 parametric specifications.
26
\n--- PAGE 00000039 ---\nChapter III. Analysis of Partially Balanced Designs
1. Introduction. In this chapter, general solutions appropriate for data analysis are given. In section 2
both the intra-block and the combined intra- and inter-block analyses are given for each of the three models
for blocking configurations. Section 3 contains an explanation of the ways the association schemes can be
used to provide easier ways to compute useful quantities for the analysis using hand calculations. Section 4
provides 2 worked out examples as illustrative aids for those who use a desk calculator. Section 5 deals with
the general least squares approach for data analysis, appropriate when calculations are done on an electronic
computer. Finally, section 6 provides an example for use in checking out a computer code that utilizes the
methods of section 5.
Perhaps it should be emphasized that the data being analyzed here were taken from BCS (1954) and
originated at the Agriculture Experiment Station, North Carolina State College. The analyses given in
sections 4 and 6 differ from those of BCS (1954) in numerical computational details and in the provision of
variances for single treatment effects not available in 1954.
2. General analysis of D(2) designs. The general analysis procedure described in this section is a re-
organization of that presented in BCS (1954) which is a refinement of the general analysis of Rao (1947)
for partially balanced designs accomplished by the introduction of certain computational constants c₁,
C2, H, and ▲ for intra-block analyses and additional constants d, and d₂ for the combined intra- and inter-
block analyses of variance. We shall describe both these methods of analysis for each of three models.
Intra-block estimates are obtained from treatment contrasts obtained within the blocks. These arise
through the model commonly known as the fixed effects model in which the additive components representing
treatment effects t; and block effects b; are conceived of as fixed but unknown constants which we may wish
to intercompare.
On the other hand, inter-block estimates arise from the assumption that the block effects are random
variables, stochastically independent of each other and of the errors ej and identically distributed. They
are derived from contrasts among the block averages.
Under normality assumptions the intra-block estimates are independent of the inter-block estimates
and this led to an analysis of D(2) designs in which the estimation of the t is based on a linear combination
of the intra- and inter-block estimates of the ti.
For each of these estimation procedures we shall provide for three different conceptual models depend-
ing upon the nature of the blocking arrangements. These we define briefly.
Model 1 is the case for which there is no provision for grouping of blocks. This model is independent
of whether the b; are considered as fixed effects or random variables.
Model 2 is the model in which the design provides for groupings of the blocks such that within every
group each treatment occurs exactly n(≥ 1) times. The groups we call replication groups. If there are r'
such groups then r=nr'. In the model 2 setup the block effect b; of model 1 is now thought of as b;= pc+x;
where the pe represents a replication effect and the x; is a differential effect of the jth block in its replication
group. The x, is considered to be a fixed but unknown quantity in intra-block analyses, but is conceived of
xj
as a N(0, of) variable in inter-block analyses. The quantity pc is a fixed but unknown constant.
Model 3 is the model appropriate to designs which provide for replication groups orthogonal to the
blocks. Suppose the first e positions in the b blocks give exactly n replications of all treatments, the next
e positions provide exactly n replications, etc. If there are r' replication groups, then r=nr' and k=er'.
These designs provide for a two-way elimination of heterogeneity, i.e., between blocks and between replica-
tion groups orthogonal to blocks. Well-known examples of such designs are the Latin squares [Fisher (1958)]
and the Youden square designs [Youden (1937)]. D(2) and BIB designs having replications orthogonal to
27
\n--- PAGE 00000040 ---\nthe blocks are spoken of as having been Youdenized. The analysis of variance table for Youdenized designs
provides for a replication groups subdivision for which the sums of squares and the degrees of freedom serve
to reduce the corresponding quantities in the "error" line of a model 1 analysis of variance table.
In the "even" numbered Tables VI, VIII, . . ., XVIII of this volume replication groups orthogonal
to the blocks are indicated by vertical rulings in the design plans, while the replication groups of Model 2
are indicated by horizontal rulings.
2.1. Intra-block analyses. In this section we shall present the formulas necessary for the intra-block
analyses and the expressions for the computational constants C1, C2, H, and ▲ and the efficiency factors
E₁, E2, and E. In section 2.2 we specify the formulas for the combined intra- and inter-block analyses.
Let there be v treatments whose effects it is required to compare by using a partially balanced design
with two associate classes. We divide the N(=bk) experimental units to which the treatments are to be
applied into b more or less homogeneous sets called blocks, each block containing k units. The design di-
vides the treatments into b sets, such that each set contains k treatments, and each treatment occurs in r
sets, other conditions for a D(2) design being satisfied. The b sets of treatments are assigned randomly to
the b blocks, and the individual treatments of a set are assigned randomly to the units of the corresponding
block. Let yy be the observed result of applying the ith treatment to a unit in the jth block. We delay consid-
eration of the conceptual composition of the observation y until the three models are discussed separately.
It should be noted that to a given j(j=1, 2, . . ., b) only k different values of i are associated, since the
symbol y or ty is meaningful only when the ith treatment occurs in the jth block.
Denote by T, the total of the observations for the ith treatment, i.e., T; is the sum of the observations
from the r plots containing the ith treatment. Let B; be the sum of the k observations for the jth block. Denote
by Q, the adjusted yield for the ith treatment, where Qi is obtained by subtracting from T; the sum of the block
averages for those blocks in which the ith treatment occurs. Thus, if the ith treatment occurs in blocks num-
bered i, i2, . . ., ir, we have
(3.1)
-
Q₁ = T; — — (Bi, + B₁₂+Bi₂+ -
. .
12
.+Bir).
Further, let S, (Qi) be the sum of the adjusted yields for all the first associates of the ith treatment. Thus, if
the first associates of the ith treatment are the treatments numbered i₁, i2, . .
in,, then
(3.2)
S₁ (Qi) = Qi,+Q₁₂+ ··· + Qin,·
•
We denote the grand total of all the N observations by G.
Define the constants A, H, c1, c2 by the relations
(3.3)
(3.4)
(3.5)
(3.6)
where
(3.7)
(3.8)
k²A = (a+λ₁) (a +λ2) + (λ, − λ2) {a(ƒ—g) + ƒλ₂-gd₁}
kH = (2a+λ₁ + λ₂) + (ƒ− g) (λ1 −λ2),
kSc₁ = λ₁ (a + λ) + (A₁ − λ₂) (ƒλ2-gλ₁),
-
kAc₂ = X2 (a + X₁) + (λ, − λ₂) (ƒλ2−gλ₁),
(3.9)
a=r(k-1),
f=Plas
8 = Pia
28
\n--- PAGE 00000041 ---\nIt should be noted that the quantities C1, C2, H, and ▲ depend only upon the design and not upon the data
obtained by its use. Hence these values may be tabled along with the design plans.
The best linear estimate t; of the treatment effect t; is given by
(3.10)
for i = 1,2,
r(k−1) î¡ = (k − C2) Qi + (C1 – C2) S1 (Qi),
., v, under the restructions Σt₁ = 0 and Σt₁ = 0.
The most frequent application of D(2) designs is that of comparative experimentation in which every
test treatment is being compared with a control treatment. In the absence of a control treatment, all v treat-
ments may have the same competitive status in the comparisons so that any (or even all) simple contrasts
ti-tu (iu;, u= 1,2, . . ., v) may be of interest. Hence, it is conventional to provide the variance of the
estimate of the difference between two treatment effects
(3.11)
V(i₁-in) == 0) (20²).
--
-
k-cj
k-1
r
where the treatments i and u are jth associates (j=1,2). If we had used a randomized block experiment with
the same number r of replications, this variance would have been (203)/r where σ is the corresponding
error variance. Since k < v, σ² is an general less than o
If we neglect this difference and suppose that the reduction in the block size has produced no corre-
sponding reduction in the error variance, we may set σ2 σ%. Then
=
(3.12)
k
=
k
E-j-1.2
E;=
j = 1, 2
Cj
gives the ratio of the variance of the estimate of ti-tu when the randomized block design is used, to the
variance of the same estimate when the partially balanced design is used. The quantitites E1 and E2 are
called the efficiency factors of the two kinds of comparison.
For any given treatment i, there are v-1 possible treatment contrasts of the type ti-tu (u ‡ i=1,
2, . . ., v). Of these n₁ are estimated each with variance
(3.13)
202 (k - c₁)
r(k − 1)
and the remaining n₂ are estimated each with variance
(3.14)
Hence, we can take
(3.15)
202 (k - C2)
r(k-1)
202
r(k-1)
{n(kc₁)+n2(k − c₂)}
v-l
-
as the average variance of a treatment comparison. Taking the reciprocal of the ratio of this average variance
to the variance in the case of the randomized block experiment and omitting the ratio σ2/σ², we get the
overall efficiency E of the design, where
(k-1)(v1)
(3.16)
E
=
n₁ (k − c₁) + n2 (k − C2) '
where n is the number of ith associates of any treatment.
29
\n--- PAGE 00000042 ---\nInstead of the simple contrast ti -
lity of the
Ź
tu the experimenter can estimate any linear function
treatment effects, provided Σ4;= 0 (i.e., provided it is a contrast). The best estimate of such a contrast
is known to be estimable by substituting in the linear function any set of least squares estimates of the
treatment effects. Now we have utilized the restriction t = 0 in obtaining the least squares estimates
of the treatment effects so that the best estimate of t is
(3.17)
ti
i₁ = i₁
--
ti,
which is clearly a contrast. If one treatment should stand out above all the others or if the D(2) design is
used for factorial designs so that t represents a treatment combination, then the experimenter may want
to estimate a treatment effect ti by use of îi and for this estimate he may desire to have available the ex-
pression for the variance of the estimate t. Using the method of Bradley, Walpole, and Kramer (1960), it
can be shown that the general formula for the variance of an intra-block treatment estimate is
(3.18a)
-
V(îi)
=
nı (k − c₁) + n2(k − C2)
vr (k-1)
σ2
where c₁ and c₂ can be obtained from (3.5) and (3.6) respectively (and are tabled along with the plans for
all designs given in this volume).
It is often of interest to estimate the treatment means, ti+g. The variances of these quantities are
(3.18b)
Var (î¡+g) = Var (î) + Var (g) = Var (î;) + —
where Var (î) is defined in (3.18).
υτ
The variance o² appearing in the above equations is generally unknown, so that it is customary to
estimate the variances V(ti-tu), V(t), and V(+) by substituting for σ the mean square for error
from the analysis of variance table appropriate to the model being used.
2.1.1. Model 1: ungrouped blocks. For the intra-block or fixed effects model with ungrouped blocks
the observation yij is conceived of as the sum of four additive components.
(3.19)
Yij=g+ti+bj +Єij,
wherein g is an overall mean, t is the (differential) effect of the ith treatment, b; is the (differential) effect
of the jth block and € is a random component distributed N(0, σ²). The v+b+1 quantities g, t₁(i=1, 2,
· 9
v) and b; (j=1, 2, . . ., b) are fixed but unknown constants. We further assume that the Єij are
stochastically independent of each other and of the fixed effects.
The intra-block analysis of variance for model 1 is given in Table 1.
The F-test is carried out in the usual way with degrees of freedom v-1 and N-b-v+1. To test the
significance of the estimated difference between the effects of the ith and uth treatments which are jth
associates we use the t-statistic,
(3.20)
t=
(îì—îu)√r(k−1)
Se V2(k-cj)
where s is the mean square for error in the above table and the degrees of freedom for t are the same as
that on which s is based.
-
For estimation purposes differences between two estimates calculated from (3.10), îi — îu, i ‡ u, and
30
\n--- PAGE 00000043 ---\nTABLE 1
Degrees of
freedom
Treatments
(adjusted)
v-1
INTRA-BLOCK ANALYSIS OF VARIANCE (WITH UNGROUPED BLOCKS)
Source of
variation
Mean square
St
st=
Sum of squares
S? = ½ î¿Q
Blocks
(unadjusted)
b-1
=
52-18-
G2
St
Error
N-b-v+1
S (by subtraction)
så
N-b-v+1
G2
Total
N-1
Σ
F= si/s
N
their variances calculated from (3.11) with σ replaced with the unbiased estimate s obtained from Table 1
are available and so are estimates î¡ (i=1, 2, . . ., v) and their variances estimated from (3.18).
2.1.2. Model 2: Subsets of blocks as replications. In many designs, it is possible to group the blocks
in such a way, that within every group each treatment is replicated n times. These groups may be called
replication groups. If there are r' such groups, then nr' = r. The experimental material in this case should
be so divided that the blocks to which the treatment sets of the same replication group are assigned, are
relatively more alike. Thus in agronomic experiments, the land may be divided into r' large pieces corres-
ponding to the replication groups, and then each piece is subdivided into b' =b/r' blocks. In actually laying
down the experiment, one makes a three-fold randomization in the assignment of (i) the replication groups to
groups of blocks, (ii) the sets of treatments in a replication group to the individual blocks of the block groups,
and (iii) the treatments of a set to the units in the corresponding block. Suppose that the ith treatment is
applied to a unit in the jth block which occurs in the cth replication group, then we assume the model
(3.21)
Yij=g+ti+pc+xj + Eij,
so that the observation is considered to be the sum of (i) a general effect g, (ii) the treatment effect ti, (iii)
the replication effect pc, (iv) the differential effect x; of the jth block within its replication group, xj being re-
TABLE 2 INTRA-BLOCK ANALYSIS OF VARIANCE (WITH GROUPED BLOCKS)
Source of
variation
Degrees of
freedom
Treatments
(adjusted)
v-
-1
Replication
groups
r'-1
Blocks within
Sum of
squares
sz=iQi
iW-
R2 G2
ην
N
Mean square
S
บ
1
St
1
replication
b-r'
S'ow
k
-
nv
groups (unad-
justed)
Error
N-b-v+1
S2 (by subtraction)
s=
St
N-b-v+1
G2
Total
N-1
Σ
F= s²/s²
N
31
\n--- PAGE 00000044 ---\ngarded as a fixed but unknown constant, (v) a random effect e; which is normally distributed N(0, σ2). As
usual all the variables are considered to be independently distributed. By putting pe+x;= bj, it is seen that,
so far as the intra-block model is concerned, there is no change in the estimation of the treatment effects.
The analysis of variance table is, however, slightly modified and is given in Table 2. The symbol Re stands
for the sum of the block totals in the cth replication group.
The F-test and the t-test are performed in the usual manner, while the variance of the difference between
two treatment estimates utilizes formula (3.11) and the variance of the estimate of a single treatment esti-
mate is computed from formula (3.18), where σ2 is replaced with the mean square for error, s2, obtained
from Table 2.
2.1.3. Model 3: replication groups orthogonal to blocks. Model 3 in which the design provides for
groups of treatments which are replication groups orthogonal to the blocks is well described at the beginning
of section 2. In randomizing the treatments within blocks care should be taken to keep the replication
groups unaltered. Suppose that the ith treatment occurs in the set which has been assigned to the jth block,
and within this block it has been applied in the cth replication group giving the observation yij. We assume
that
(3.22)
Yij = g+ti + pc + bj + Eij,
where g, ti, bj, Eij have the same meaning as in Model 1, and pc stands for the effect of the replication group.
The usual assumptions about the random variables involved are considered to hold.
The intra-block equations of estimation again remain unchanged, though the analysis of variance
table is slightly modified and is given below, where Re stands for the sum of the observations in the cth
replication group.
TABLE 3
INTRA-BLOCK ANALYSIS OF VARIANCE (WITH REPLICATION GROUPS ORTHOGONAL TO BLOCKS)
Source of
variation
Degrees of
freedom
Treatments
(adjusted)
v-l
Blocks
(unadjusted)
b-1
S'2
Replication
groups
r' - 1
Error
N-b-v-r' + 2
Total
N-1
Sum of
squares
s; = & ¿Q
-M-
Σ
1
B2
G2
312
N
S; => R G²
1
nv
S2 (by substraction)
Mean squares
S
v-
- 1
S
N
S2
b-v-r'+2
Σ vij
G2
N
F = s2/s²
The F-test and the t-test are performed in the usual manner. V(-îu) and V(ii) are computed from
(3.11) and (3.18) with σ2 replaced with its unbiased estimate, s2, taken from Table 3.
2.2. Combined intra- and inter-block analysis. We now consider the combined intra- and inter-block
analysis for the Models 1, 2, and 3. We define
(3.23)
(3.24)
Q₁ = T₁ - Q₁ - TG,
Qi
N
w=
=
σ2
32
\n--- PAGE 00000045 ---\n(3.25)
w':
(3.26)
(3.27)
(3.28)
(3.29)
=
1
σ² + koz'
P₁ = wQi+w'Qi,
W
=
di
=
w'
w-
— w''
C₁A+ rλ₁W
A+rHW+W2,
d2
=
C₂A+ rλ₂W
A+rHW+22⋅
The combined intra- and inter-block estimate î of the treatment effect t; is given by the equation
(3.30)
r{w'+w(k−1)}î{ = (k− d₂)P;+ (d₁ — d₂)S₁ (Pi),
where S₁(P) is the sum of the Pi's for those treatments which are the first associates of the ith treatment
and where Σt₁ = 0.
The variance of the estimate of the difference of two treatment effects in this case is given by
(3.31)
-
V (î'¡ − î'u) = r{w'+w(k − 1)}
2(k-di)
-
here j=1 or 2 according as the ith and uth treatments are first or second associates.
Corresponding to the expression (3.18a) for V(t) for intra-block analyses, Bradley, Walpole, and Kramer
(1960) provide the formula for the variance of a single combined intra- and inter-block treatment estimate,
namely,
(3.32)
where
-
V (î}) = [n₁ (k − d₁ ) + n₂ (k − d½ ) ]/Rv (k−1)
Corresponding to (3.18b) we have
(3.33)
R=r{w'+w(k-1)}/(k-1).
1
Var(îi +ĝ) = Var(î;) + Var(ĝ) =Var(î¦) +
vrw'
The quantities w and w' which enter into the above equations are not known and have to be estimated
from the observations themselves. This can be done by forming auxiliary tables of analysis of variance.
33
\n--- PAGE 00000046 ---\nThus, if we have Model 1 given by (3.19) the auxiliary table is the following:
TABLE 4
Source of
variation
AUXILIARY TABLE FOR INTER-BLOCK ANALYSIS OF VARIANCE (WITH UNGROUPED BLOCKS)
Degrees of
freedom
Expectation of the
sum of squares
Sum of squares
Treatments
(unadjusted)
v-1
S/2=Σ
v T2 G²
N
Blocks
(adjusted)
b-1
S (by subtraction)
(b−1)σ² + (N−v)σ?
Error
N-b-v+1
S2 (transfer from Table 1)
(N−b-v+1)σ²
G2
Total
N-1
ΣΝ
(transfer from Table 1)
We estimate of and σ? by equating S2 and S2 to their expectations and hence estimate w and w' from
(3.24) and (3.25). The estimated values of w and w' are substituted for w and w' wherever they occur.
Rao (1947) has shown that ΣîP, has the x²-distribution with (v−1) degrees of freedom, but this depends
upon the weights w and w' being known without error. Thus, there is no exact test of the significance of
the treatment effects but an approximate test is obtained by testing έî;¡P, as a x²-variable with (v−1)
degrees of freedom.
In Model 2 which has blocks divided into replication groups, and in which we assume that the b; are
identically distributed N(0, of) we have the following auxiliary table:
TABLE 5
AUXILIARY TABLE FOR INTER-BLOCK ANALYSIS OF VARIANCE (WITH GROUPED BLOCKS)
Source of
variation
Treatments
v-1
(unadjusted)
Degrees of
freedom
Sum of squares
Expectation of the
sum of squares
St2=
ΣΕ Ν
TG²
N
Replication
groups
r'-1
S2 (transfer from Table 2)
Blocks within
replication groups
b-r'
S2 (by subtraction)
(b−r')σ²+(N−v−kr'+k)σf
bw
(adjusted)
Error
N-b-v+1
S2 (transfer from Table 2)
(N−b−v+1)σ²
Total
N-1
Σxi-c
G2
N
(transfer from Table 2)
σ2 and of are again estimated by equating S and S2, to their expectations. We again estimate w and
w' from (3.24) and (3.25) and use these estimates for w and w' wherever they occur.
Finally in the case of Model 3 given by (3.22) where there are replication groups orthogonal to the blocks,
34
\n--- PAGE 00000047 ---\nand in which it is assumed that the block effects are random and identically distributed N(0, σ%), we have
the following auxiliary table:
TABLE 6
AUXILIARY TABLE FOR INTER-BLOCK ANALYSIS OF VARIANCE
(WITH REPLICATION GROUPS ORTHOGONAL TO BLOCKS)
Source of
Sum of squares
variation
Degrees of
freedom
Expectation of the
sum of squares
Treatments
(unadjusted)
G2
v-1
S'
-
r
N
1
Blocks
(adjusted)
b-1
St (by subtraction)
(b−1)σ²+(N−v)σ?
Replication
groups
r'-1
St (Transfer from Table 3)
Error
N−b-v−r'+2 S2 (Transfer from Table 3)
(N-b-v-r'+2)σ²
Συ
Σvi-a
N
Total
N-1
(Transfer from Table 3)
As before, we estimate of and σ² by equating S and S2 to their expectations and then estimate w and
w' by (3.24) and (3.25) and use these estimates for w and w' in the equations of estimation and the formula
for variance.
3. Use of the association schemes in data analysis. Prior to the introduction of the association schemes
by Bose and Shimamoto (1952) the computations in the analysis of data arising from the D(2) type of designs
was rather tedious, especially the evaluation of the v values for S₁ (Qi) for intra-block analyses and the
corresponding values S₁ (Pi) for the combined intra- and inter-block analyses. The association schemes
make possible the analyses in the forms given in section 4.1 and 4.2. We shall describe in this section how
to utilize the association schemes for D(2) type designs to calculate the quantities S₁ (Qi) and S₁ (P₁) for
i=1, 2,..., v.
When digital computers are used, the special features described in this section are of no special interest,
because an analysis based on general linear regression theory (which is in no way dependent on the clas-
sification of designs as group divisible, triangular, etc.) is appropriate. Further, a well designed computer
program will give variances for block effect estimates that are not available from the formulas prepared for
hand computing.
3.1. Group divisible designs. The association schemes for this very large class of D(2) designs are called
groups and are identified as "group (m, n)," meaning an mXn array of treatment symbols 1,2, . . ., v sys-
tematically arranged in m rows (groups) of n distinct treatments per group. The groups listed in Section A
of Table II are standardized and the group (m, n) is of the form
1
m+1
2
m+2
2m+1
2m+2
...
(n-1)m+1
(n-1)m+2
2m
3m
•
nm
After the Qi (i = 1, 2, . . ., v) have been calculated, one can consider the computation of the best intra-
block estimates, ti, of the treatment effects according to (3.10)
35
\n--- PAGE 00000048 ---\n(3.34
r(k-1)î₁ = (k-c₂) Qi + (C1-
—C2)Sı (Qi)
= (k-c₁)Qi+ (C1-C2) (Qi+S₁ (Qi))
= (k-c₁)Qi+ (C1—C₂)Gi
where
(3.35)
Gi=Qi+S₁(Qi).
It is noted that if alongside each treatment i of the association scheme, we record the corresponding adjusted
yield, Qi (i=1, 2, . . ., v), then the sum of the Qi of any row gives the n values G; for treatments in that row.
Since the r, k, C1, C2 are known constants for a given design, we can set up an auxiliary table for calculations
in which the treatment symbol i occurs in the first column, the corresponding adjusted yield in the second
column, and the corresponding G; in the third column. Then using
(3.36)
(3.37)
where a =
(k-c₁)/r(k-1) and B
=
k-c₁
C1-C2
Q₁+
r(k-1) r(k-1)
îi=aQi+B Gi,
Gi
(C1-C2)/r(k-1), one can calculate the entry for the ith row of the
fourth column for estimated treatment effects. The subsidiary table has headings as shown:
Treatment
number i
Qi
Gi
î¡=aQi+B Gi
For the combined intra- and inter-block analysis the new estimates for the treatment effects are given
by equation (3.30) which we alter slightly.
(3.38)
-
-
r { w' + w(k − 1 ) } î¦ = (k−d2)Pi + (d₁ − d₂)S₁(Pi)
=
(k−d₁)Pi+ (d₁−d₂) (P¿+S₁(P;))
=
= (k − d₁)Pi + (d₁ — d₂)G¦
where
(3.39)
and
(3.40)
P₁=wQi+w'Qi
G'₁=P₁+S₁(Pi).
Now the Q and Q will have been computed and the w and w' will have been estimated from the data, using
(3.24) and (3.25) as explained in section 2. One then calculates the P₁(i = 1, 2, . . ., v) from (3.39) above.
These values of P₁ are entered alongside the corresponding treatment numbers i in the association scheme
(groups). Then the sum of the Pi's in any row (group) of the association scheme provide the n values G¦
for the treatments of that group.
form
(3.41)
Now d₁ and d2 will have been computed using (3.28) and (3.29). Thus equation (3.38) above takes the
î'₁ = a' Pi+ B'G'},
36
\n--- PAGE 00000049 ---\nwhere
(3.42)
k-di
a' =
and
r { w' + w(k − 1 ) }
B'
-
d₁-d2
r { w'+w(k−1)}
As before, it is convenient to calculate the combined intra- and inter-block treatment effect estimates,
t'i, by use of an auxiliary v-rowed computational table whose headings are
Treatment
number i
Pi
G
i
3.2. Triangular designs. The standardized triangular association schemes listed in section B of Table II
are designated by T(n) where n is the parameter defining the scheme. For these association schemes there
are v=n(n−1)/2 treatments where n ≥ 5 is a positive integer. The v treatment symbols 1, 2, 3, . . ., v are
entered successively above the main diagonal of an n× array in which the main diagonal is blanked out
and then the array is completed so as to be symmetrical. Thus the standardized triangular scheme T(5)
has v = 10 treatments arranged in a 5 × 5 array as shown.
1 2 3 4
1
2 5
5 6
7
*
8
9
*
10
3 6 8
4 7
7 9 10
For the intra-block estimates, ti, of the treatment effects suppose we have already calculated the Qi but
now need the S, (Qi) in order to employ eq (3.10) to calculate (i = 1, 2, . . ., v). Again use the association
scheme, placing the Q; alongside the corresponding treatment symbol i. Then form row and column sums
in the marginal positions. Recall that S₁ (Qi) is the sum of the adjusted treatment yields for all treatments
which are first associates of a given treatment i. Since in a triangular association scheme the first associates of
any treatment i are exactly those treatments that lie in the same rows as treatment i and in the same columns,
the quantity S. (Qi) is the sum of the marginal subtotals of the row and column containing treatment i,
less 2Qi. Thus if n=5 and i=6 in the above scheme, then S, (Q6) will be the second row total plus the fourth
column total less 2Q6. Once the S, (Qi) are calculated they are entered in an auxiliary v-rowed computational
table whose first column consists of the treatment symbols; the second and third columns consist of the
corresponding Qi and S₁ (Qi). One can then use eq (3.10) to compute the fourth column consisting of î¿.
For the combined intra- and inter-block treatment effects estimates, î, one uses the triangular associa-
tion scheme with entries Pi, calculated from (3.26), placed beside treatment i and then calculates the S₁ (Pi)
in precisely the same way as the S₁ (Qi) for i = 1, 2, . . ., v. Knowing the S₁ (Pi), one can set up a v-rowed
auxiliary table with column headings i, Pi, S₁ (Pi) and ↑ and use eq (3.30) to calculate the entries of the
the fourth column.
3.3. D(2) designs based on Latin square types of association schemes. Recall that an L,(n) type associa-
tion scheme, 2<I≤n−1, n> 3, requires 1-2 mutually orthogonal Latin squares for its definition. It
consists of an n×n array of the treatment symbols 1, 2, . . ., v=n² written in the order of the printed page
with the 1-2 sets of Latin square symbols from the 1-2 mutually orthogonal Latin squares superposed on
the square array. The association schemes of type L, (n) used in this volume, unless otherwise specified,
consist of the standardized schemes presented in section C of Table II. Thus in each (i, j)-cell of the as-
sociation scheme one will find one (unique) treatment symbol and I-2 different "kinds" of Latin letters,
37
\n--- PAGE 00000050 ---\none kind belonging to each mutually orthogonal Latin square, provided I>2. If I=2, no Latin square
is needed to define the association scheme of type L2 (n), the scheme now consisting only of the n×n array
of n2 treatment symbols.
For example, the standardized L4(5) type of association scheme utilizes a 5x5 array of the treatment
symbols 1, 2, . . ., 25 on which is superposed two mutually orthogonal Latin squares, the second having
its symbols in bold faced type.
1 A A 2 B B 3 C C
4 D D
5 E E
6 E B 7 A C 8 BD 9 CE
11 D C 12 E D 13 A E 14 B A
16 CD 17 DE 18 E A
21 B E 22 C A 23 D B
E
10 D A
15 C B
19 А В 20 В Сс
24 E C
25 A D
The first Latin square has symbols A, B, C, D, E and the second, A, B, C, D, E. The parameters of this
association scheme are
-
v = n² = 25, n₁ = I(n − 1) = 16, n₂ = (n − 1) (n−1 +1)=8,
-
P₁ = (³ 2),
19 6
P₁- (12).
P₂ = (12
4
3
Each treatment i has n₁ = 16 first associates and these consist of the treatments which occur with it in the
same row, or in the same column, or correspond to the same letter from the first Latin square or correspond
to the same letter from the second Latin square. Thus the first associates of treatment 8 are:
6, 7, 9, 10; 3, 13, 18, 23; 2, 14, 20, 21; 4, 12, 16, 25.
The second associates of treatment i will be those treatments which are not its first associates. Thus the
n2=8 second associates of treatment 8 are 1, 5; 11, 15; 17, 19; 22, 24.
Further, any pair of treatments which are first associates will appear together in A, blocks and any pair
which are second associates will appear together in A₂ blocks of any design which is based on the L, (n)
type of association scheme.
Thus any design based on an L, (n) type of Latin square association scheme will have its analyses
materially simplified when computations are performed on a desk calculator if use is made of the association
scheme. Thus one uses eq (3.10) to calculate the intra-block estimates ↑ of the treatment effects
where
î₁
=aQi + BS₁ (Qi)
-
a = (k − c₁)/r(k − 1)
and
B = (c₁ = c2)/r(k − 1).
-
The Qi will have been calculated and recorded in the treatment allocation plan table (along with the cal-
culated quantities Ti, Ti-Qi and Qi). To obtain the values S₁ (Qi) (i=1, 2, . . ., n²=v), the Qi correspond-
ing to treatment i is recorded in the cell of the association scheme alongside treatment symbol i and the
corresponding (1-2) Latin square symbols. Then form n marginal row sums of the Q in the various rows
and n column sums. Also form (I−2) sets of n marginal subtotals, each set consisting of the n values Qi
that are associated with a particular Latin square symbol. From the definition of S₁ (Qi) as the sum of all
adjusted treatment yields of treatments that are first associates of treatment i, it is clear that S₁ (Qi) equals
38
\n--- PAGE 00000051 ---\n[the sum of the marginal subtotals of Q's corresponding to the row, the column, and to each of the I-2
Latin square symbols associated with treatment i] less [IQi]. The Qi and S₁ (Qi) associated with treatment i
are then entered in the ith row of an auxiliary v-rowed table whose headings are as shown.
Treatment
number i
Qi
S₁(Qi)
The are then calculated from (3.10) and entered into the last column of the table.
For the combined intra- and inter-block treatment effects estimates, î, we follow the same procedure
for calculating S₁(Pi) except that the P; are substituted for the Qi in the association scheme. For calculation
of the it is convenient to set up an auxiliary v-rowed table with P₁ replacing Q₁, S₁ (Pi) replacing S₁ (Qi) and
î replacing îi in the above table. Then t¦ is calculated from (3.30).
3.4. D(2) designs based on cyclic association schemes. In section D of Table II association schemes of
cyclic type are given for five values of v, namely v=5, 13, 17, 19, 37. These are standardized in the form
C(v: X1, X2,...,xn)
from which one obtains the n₁ first associates of treatment i (i=1, 2, . . ., v) by adding i to the numbers
X1, X2,. . ., xn, and reducing the sums modulo v whenever they exceed v. Any treatment that is not a first
associate of treatment i is its second associate.
For example, the standard association scheme for v=5 treatments is given as C(5: 2, 3). The first
associates of treatment i are shown in the table.
Treatment
First associates
i
of treatment i
4
45123
345
2 3
12345
3
4
5
1
For intra-block estimates the quantities Q are listed in the cyclic association scheme alongside the
treatment symbols for first associates of each treatment i (i = 1, 2, . . ., v). Row totals are then formed and
they are the S₁(Qi). For computation of S₁ (Pi) we substitute the P; for the Qi and then the row totals give
S₁(Pi).
3.5. D(2) designs based on partial geometries. For the partial geometries A₁ = 1 and λ=0 always, so
that the experimental plan itself can serve as an association scheme. There will be r blocks that contain
treatment i and those r(k-1) other treatments in the blocks with i are its n₁ first associates. All other
treatments (which never appear in a block with treatment i) are its n₂ second associates.
Also among the type of D(2) designs called miscellaneous nearly all designs have A₁ = c, c a positive
integer, and λ20 or A₁ = 0 and λ= c. Hence, what is said here about use of the blocks of the design as an
association scheme, applies also to nearly all miscellaneous designs.
=
The arrangement of the auxiliary computation tables for desk calculator analysis of designs of miscel-
laneous type D(2) designs based on partial geometries will not be described here. The interested reader is
referred to the statistical analysis section for "simple partially balanced incomplete block designs" in
Chapter III of BCS (1954) for the appropriate suggestions for analyses of these designs [which were previously
classified as "simple"].
4. Illustrative examples as guides for analyses using desk calculators. Whenever electronic computers
are available, their use in analyses of the D(2) type of incomplete block design is highly recommended. How-
39
\n--- PAGE 00000052 ---\never, the calculations proceed quite routinely and easily using a desk calculator, especially for the smaller
designs and for larger designs whenever the association schemes are utilized to simplify calculations as
indicated in section 3. Data analyses are given here for two types of designs, the group divisible design with
model 1 structure and the triangular design with replications orthogonal to the blocks (with a model 3
structure).
4.1. Illustrative example No. 1; desk calculator computation. Suppose an experimenter wants to inter-
compare t 15 treatments in blocks of size k=4. Reference to Table 0 under the section headed k=4,
shows that there is one design with v= 15 and r=4 and several other larger designs with r=8. The smaller
design, R114, is then found in Tables VIII and IX where the parameters, computational constants, efficiency
factors and plan are given. The association scheme (or groups) is identified as groups (5, 3) of section A,
Table II. The details are
v = 15,
c₁ = 0,
r = 4,
C₂ = 4/15,
k = 4,
b = 15,
m = 5,
n = 3,
λ₁ = 0,
λ₂ = 1
H = 27/4,
A = 45/4
-
E, 0.75,
E₂ = 0.80,
E = 0.80
The association scheme is given by the 5×3 array of treatment symbols;
1 6
11
2
7
12
3
8
13
4
9
14
5 10
15
it contains the information that any pair of treatments occurring in the same row of the association scheme
are first associates and never occur together in any block of the design (λ₁ =0), while any two treatments
from different rows are second associates and occur together in just one block (^2=1). The efficiencies
for the two kinds of treatment pairings are E₁ = 0.75 and E₂ = 0.80, averaging E=0.80 overall, are attractive
to the experimenter and the economy of a small design requiring only N=vr=60 experimental units overall
= 105 treatment differences.
The computational details for the analysis of this design are illustrated with data taken from Chapter II of
BCS (1954), and differ from the analysis given there only in a few numerical values.
is even more attractive considering that he could possibly have interest in all (
(15)
2
The experimental plan given in Table 7 is that of R114 Table IX after subsets of four experimental units
have been randomly assigned to the block symbols (j) and the treatments of the blocks have been randomly
assigned to the experimental units within the blocks. The details of the analysis are subdivided into 5 steps.
Step. 1. Preparation of the experimental plan and treatment plan and associated calculations. The
experimental plan, Table 7, shows the block number in the first column. In the second column opposite
each block number (and in the same row) are given the treatments appearing in this block, and below each
treatment number is shown the corresponding observed yield. For example, the experimental unit carrying
the treatment 9 in block (1) gave a yield of 2.5. The third column of the experimental plan shows the block
totals, B,, obtained by adding the yields of all the experimental units in the block. Thus B₁ = 9.5 is obtained
by adding the four yields 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.0. The last column of the experimental plan gives the block average,
B/k, obtained by dividing the corresponding item in the previous column by k. The total of the third column
gives the grand total, G, of all the observations. This is 164.0 in Table 7. Finally below the last column is
entered the grand mean, G/N, for later use (N= vrbk being the total number of experimental units).
40
\n--- PAGE 00000053 ---\nTABLE 7
EXPERIMENTAL PLAN
Treatments numbers and yields
Block
(j)
Block
totals Bj
Block
averages Bj/k
(1)
15
9
1
13
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.0
9.5
2.375
(2)
5
7
8
1
2.7
2.8
2.4
2.7
10.6
2.650
(3)
10
1
14
2.6
2.8
2.4
2.2
22
10.0
2.500
(4)
15
11
2
3
3.4
3.1
2.1
2.3
10.9
2.725
(5)
6
15
4
7
4.1
3.3
3.3
2.9
13.6
3.400
(6)
12
4
3
1
3.4
3.2
2.8
3.0
12.4
3.100
(7)
3.2
22224
14
15
8
2.5
2.4
2.6
10.7
2.675
(8)
6
2.3
2.3
3333
14
5
2.4
2.7
9.7
2.425
(9)
5
4
2
2.8
2.8
2.6
2.5
35
13
10.7
2.675
(10)
10
2.5
22222
12
13
6
2.7 2.8
2.6
10.6
2.650
(11)
9
7
10
3
2.6
2.6
2.3
2.4
9.9
2.475
(12)
8
6
2
9
2.7
2.7
2.5
2.6
10.5
2.625
(13)
5
9
11
12
3.0
3.6
3.2
3.2
13.0
3.250
(14)
7
3.0
3888
13
14
11
2.8 2.4
2.5
10.7
2.675
(15)
10
4
8
11
2.4
2.5
3.2
3.1
11.2
2.800
G = 164.0
G
2.7333
N
The treatment allocation plan, Table 8, shows the treatment number in the first column. In the second
column opposite each treatment number (and in the same row) are given the blocks in which this treatment
appears, and below each block number is shown the corresponding observed yield. In the next row of the
second column, immediately below the observed yields, are shown the block averages (taken from the final
column of the experimental plan, Table 7. For example the figure 3.100 below block number (6) in the third
row opposite treatment number 1, is the same as the figure in the last column of Table 7, opposite block num-
ber (6). The third column gives the treatment total, Ti, and the adjustment, Ti-Qi. The value of T¡ is obtained
41
\n--- PAGE 00000054 ---\nTABLE 8
TREATMENT ALLOCATION PLAN
Treatment
i
Block numbers, yields and
Ti and
Qi
Qi
block averages
Ti-Qi
1
(1)
(2)
(3)
(6)
2.6
2.7
2.8
3.0
11.100
2.375
2.650
2.500
3.100
10.625
0.475
-0.3083
2
(3)
(4)
(9)
(12)
2.2
2.1
2.6
2.5
9.400
2.500
2.725
2.675
2.625
10.525
- 1.125
- 0.4083
3
(4)
(6)
(8)
2.3
2.8
2.3
(11)
2.4
2.725
3.100
2.425
2.475
9.800
10.725
- 0.925
- 0.2083
(5)
(6)
(9)
(15)
3.3
3.2
2.8
2.5
11.800
3.400
3.100
2.675
2.800
11.975
- 0.175
1.0417
5
(2)
(8)
(9)
(13)
2.7
2.7
2.8
3.0
11.200
2.650
2.425
2.675
3.250
11.000
0.200
0.0667
6
(5)
(8)
(10)
(12)
4.1
2.3
2.6
2.7
11.700
3.400
2.425
2.650
2.625
11.100
0.600
0.1667
7
(2)
(5)
(11)
(14)
2.8
2.9
2.6
3.0
11.300
2.650
3.400
2.475
2.675
11.200
0.100
0.2667
8
(2)
(7)
(12)
(15)
2.4
2.6
2.7
3.2
10.900
2.650
2.675
2.625
2.800
10.750
0.150
-0.1833
9
(1)
(11)
(12)
(13)
2.5
2.6
2.6
3.6
11.300
2.375
2.475
2.625
3.250
10.725
0.575
- 0.2083
10
(3)
(10)
(11)
(15)
2.6
2.5
2.3
2.4
9.800
2.500
2.650
2.475
2.800
10.425
-
- 0.625
- 0.5083
11
(4)
(13)
(14)
(15)
3.1
3.2
2.5
3.1
11.900
2.725
3.250
2.675
2.800
11.450
0.450
0.5167
12
(6)
(7)
(10)
(13)
3.4
3.2
2.7
3.2
12.500
3.100
2.675
2.650
3.250
11.675
0.825
0.7417
13
(1)
(9)
(10)
(14)
2.0
2.5
2.8
2.8
2.375
2.675
2.650
2.675
10.100
10.375
- 0.275 -0.5583
14
(3)
(7)
(8)
(14)
2.4
2.5
2.4
2.4
2.500
2.675
2.425
2.675
9.700
10.275
- 0.575 -0.6583
15
(1)
(4)
(5)
(7)
2.4
3.4
3.3
2.4
11.500
2.375
2.725
3.400
2.675
11.175
0.325
0.2417
42
\n--- PAGE 00000055 ---\nby adding the yields in the second row of the second column opposite the treatment i. Thus
T₁ = 2.6 2.7 2.8 +3.0 = 11.1,
and the value of Ti-Qi is obtained by adding the block averages in the third row of the second column
opposite the treatment i. Thus
T₁- Q₁ = 2.375 +2.650+ 2.500+ 3.100 10.625.
The fourth column of Table 8 gives the adjusted yields Qi and the fifth column the quantities Q defined
by (3.23). Qi is obtained by subtracting T-Q; from Ti, and Q is obtained by subtracting rG/N=10.9333 from
Ti-Qi. Thus
Q₁ = 11.1 - 10.625 = 0.475,
Q;= 10.625
-
10.9333 =-
0.3083.
The column entries Qi, Ti, Ti-Q; and Q may be checked, except for round-off errors, by ΣQi=0;
ΣT=G=Σ(Ti-Qi)=164.0.
Step 2. Calculation of G, and the intra-block estimates î. We have from (3.34) and (3.35)
where
r(k−1)î;= (k − c₁) Qi + (c1 − c₂ ) Gi,
G₁ =Qi+S₁ (Qi)
is the sum of Q's (adjusted yields) corresponding to all treatments belonging to the same group as the treat-
ment i.
(3.43)
C1-C2
u = Gr.
k-c₁
r(k-1)
Qi+r(k-1)
To calculate G we form the table of adjusted yields (Table 9) by writing below each treatment i in the as-
sociation scheme the value of Qi taken from the fourth column of Table 8. The row sums of the Q's now give
the quantities G. For example, the treatments in group 1 are 1, 6, 11. Hence
G₁ =G6=G11=Q1 + Q6+Q11=0.475+0.600+0.450=1.525.
TABLE 9
CALCULATION OF G
Group
number
Treatments and adjusted yields
Q₁
G
1
0.475
0.475
6
0.600
11
0.450
1.525
2
2
7
-1.125
0.100
12
0.825
-0.200
3
3
8
-0.925
0.150
13
-0.275
- 1.050
4
-0.175
9
0.575
14
-0.575
-0.175
5
5
0.200
10
-0.625
15
0.325
-0.100
43
\n--- PAGE 00000056 ---\nThe intra-block estimates, î, of the treatment effects, ti, can now be calculated by using the formula
(3.43), which becomes, for our particular problem
ti
=
-
45
The calculations can be systematically arranged as in Table 10 where the columns headed Q and G₁ are
obtained from Tables 8 and 9. A check is obtained by remembering that every column except the first should
add up to zero.
TABLE 10
INTRA-BLOCK ESTIMATES OF TREATMENT EFFECTS
Treatment i
Qi
G₁
î
123456789
0.475
- 1.125
1.525
-0.200
0.1244
-0.3706
-0.925
- 1.050
-0.2850
-0.175
-0.175
-0.0544
0.200
-0.100
0.0689
0.600
1.525
0.1661
0.100
-0.200
0.0377
0.150
- 1.050
0.0733
0.575
-0.175
0.1956
10
-0.625
-0.100
-0.2061
11
0.450
1.525
0.1161
13
2345
12
0.825
-0.200
0.2794
-0.275
- 1.050
-0.0684
14
-0.575
-0.175
15
0.325
-0.100
-0.1878
0.1105
Step 3. Intra-block analysis of variance.
Since the blocks are not grouped, the intra-block analysis of variance follows Table 1 of section 2. We
make the following calculations.
(a) S="Treatments adjusted" sum of squares
=
= (0.1244) (0.475)+(-0.3706) (-1.125)+... + (0.1105) (0.325)
= 1.5641,
is obtained by multiplying corresponding items in columns (4) and (2) of Table 10 and adding.
(b) Sum of squares attributable to the overall mean
(164.0)2/60=448.2666
(c) St="Blocks unadjusted sum of squares"
BG2
= ½
Σκ Ν
N
=
=
1
[9.52+10.62+ . . . +11.22]/4-(164.0)2/60
=453.1900-448.2667
=4.9233,
is obtained by subtracting the "correction factor," G/N, from one-fourth the sum of the squares of the
block totals, Bj, from Table 7.
1
1
J
T
44
\n--- PAGE 00000057 ---\n(d) S²= Total sum of squares
= (2.4)²+(2.5)2+
= 9.1733
·
+ (3.1)² — (164.0)2/60
is obtained by taking the sum of squares of all the observations and subtracting the correction factor, G²/N.
(e) S= Error sum of squares
=Total sum of squares-S-St
=9.1733-1.5641-4.9233
= 2.6859
(f) The treatment mean square, s=0.1117, and the error mean square, s2=0.08664, are obtained by
dividing the corresponding sums of squares S and S2 by the respective degrees of freedom, and finally the
F-ratio, si/s, is obtained by dividing the treatment mean square by the error mean square.
We thus get the following "intra-block analysis of variance table."
TABLE 11
INTRA-BLOCK ANALYSIS OF VARIANCE (UNGROUPED BLOCKS)
Source of
variation
Degrees of
freedom
Sum of squares
Treatment
v-1=14
S² = 1.5641
Mean square
s²=0.1117
(adjusted)
Blocks
(unadjusted)
Error
Total
b-1=14
St2=4.9233
N-v-b+1=31
N-1=59
S2=2.6859
S²=9.1733
s2=0.08664
F=s/s1.29
The observed F-ratio of 1.29 with 14 and 31 degrees of freedom is not significant at the 5 percent level.
The variance of the difference between the effects of ith and uth treatments is given by (3.11) and is
estimated by replacing o² by s (taken from Table 11). Hence the estimated variance of the difference be-
tween two treatments which are first associates (i.e., belong to the same group) is
2s
T
2¹² (k − 1) = 2(0.08664)
(4
-
4
= 0.05776.
Likewise the estimated variance of the difference between two treatments which are second associates
(i.e., belong to different groups) is
4
4
25² (k=92) =
2s C2 2(0.08664)
15
=
k-1
4
4 1
21435
28
(0.08664)
= 0.05391.
Since each treatment has n₁ =n-1 1st associates and n₂ = n(m-1) second associates, the estimated
average variance is
0.05776 (n-1)+0.05391 (m-1)n
v-1
=0.054460.
45
\n--- PAGE 00000058 ---\nThe estimated variance of an estimated treatment effect is
-
V(₁₁) =nı (k − c1)+n₂ (k − c₂)
vr (k-1)
=22 (0.08664)=0.02541.
Step 4. The inter-block analysis of variance.
4
s2=
2(4-0)+12 (4-
15(4) (3)
15
(.08664)
The inter-block analysis of variance follows Table 4 of section 2 since the blocks are not grouped. The
following calculations are to be made.
(a) S="Treatments unadjusted" sum of squares
G2
N
(11.100)²+(9.400)2+...+ (11.500)2 (164.0)2
4
= (1805.62)/4-448.2667
= 3.1383,
60
is obtained in the usual manner by squaring the treatment totals, Ti, (taken from column (3) of Table 8) and
adding them together, dividing by the number of replications, and subtracting the correction factor, G²/N.
(b) S="Blocks adjusted" sum of squates is obtained by subtracting, i.e., by using the formula
S²=S²-S2-S2
=9.1733-3.1383-2.6859
= 3.3491,
where the total sum of squares, S², and the error sum of squares, S2, are taken from the intra-block analysis
of variance Table 11. We thus get the following table.
TABLE 12
AUXILIARY TABLE FOR INTER-BLOCK ANALYSIS OF VARIANCE
Source of Degrees of freedom
variation
Sum of squares
Expectation of the
sum of squares
Treatments
v-1=14
S/2=3.1383
(unadjusted)
Blocks
(adjusted)
Error
Total
b-1=14
St=3.3491
1402+450%
N-b-v+1=31
S2=2.6859
3102
N-1=59
S²=9.1733
46
\n--- PAGE 00000059 ---\n(c) The estimates of σ² and σ are obtained by equating S2 and S to their expectations. Thus
S2= (N-b-v+1)²,
S}=(b−1)^2+(N_u)ôi.
This gives
where så is the error mean square and
is the "blocks adjusted" mean square. Hence
2= 0.08664
o²= 0.04747
w=
=
1
0.08664
= 11.5420
1
w' =
^2 = s2,
b-1
-
02-N-v
(s² — s²),
st=
=
S2
-
b-1
1
= 0.239221
²+ ko² (0.08664) + 4(0.04747)
w'
พ
3.6164
11.5420-3.6164
= 0.4563
W =
w
-
dı
d2
-
C₁A+ rλ₁W
▲ + rHW + r²W²
= 0,
=
=
C2A+ rλ₂W
A+rHW + r² W²
4
45
15
+4(0.4563)
4
45
27
+4
(0.4563) + 16(0.4563)2
= 0.1794.
= = 3.6164
47
\n--- PAGE 00000060 ---\nStep 5. Calculation of P, G and the inter-block estimates t'. From (3.38), (3.39) and (3.40) we have
and
P₁ =wQi+w'Qi,
where
=
11.5420Q; +3.6164Q;
-
r{w'+w(k−1)} î{ = (k − d₁)P₁ + (d₁ − d₂)G¦,
G₁ = P₁ + S₁(Pi)
is the sum of the P's corresponding to the same group as the treatment i. Hence
(3.44)
=
k-di
r{w' + w(k − 1)}
1
Pi +
d₁ - d2
r{w'+w(k-1)}
G
= 0.02615P-0.001173G.
The combined intra- and inter-block estimates, t, of the treatment effects, ti, can now be calculated
by using this formula. The calculations can be systematically arranged as in the subsidiary Table 13 for
the calculation of G. The values of P₁ are calculated from the formula above. The subsidiary table is then
formed by writing P, below each treatment i in the association scheme. The row sums of the P's now give
the quantities G. For example, the treatments in the first group are 1, 6, and 11. Hence
TABLE 13
CALCULATION OF G
Group
Treatments and Pi's
Gi
1
1
4.3675
6
7.5281
11
7.0625
18.9581
2
2
- 14.4613
7
2.1187
12
12.2044
-.1382
3
3
8
- 11.4296
1.0684
13
-5.1931
- 15.5543
4
1.7474
9
5.8834
14
-1.3865
- 9.0173
5
5
2.5496
10
- 9.0520
15
4.6552
- 1.8772
G{ = G = G{₁ = P₁+P6+P₁1=4.3675+7.5281+7.0625=18.9581.
The values of G' are now substituted in column (5) of Table 14, along with Q; and Q from Table 8 and
P from Table 13. Equation (3.44) may now be used to calculate the values t' of Table 14. As a check on
our calculations we may use the facts that all columns, except the treatment symbol column, of Table 14
should add up to zero, except for round-off errors.
48
\n--- PAGE 00000061 ---\nTABLE 14
COMBINED INTRA- AND INTER-BLOCK ESTIMATES OF TREATMENT EFFECTS
Treatment
Qi
Qi
Pi
G
i
1
0.4750
-0.3083
4.3675
18.9581
0.0920
2
- 1.1250
-0.4083
- 14.4613
-0.1382
-0.3780
3
-0.9250
-0.2083
- 11.4296
- 15.5543
-0.2806
4
-0.1750
1.0417
1.7474
-1.3865
0.0473
5
0.2000
0.0667
2.5496
- 1.8772
0.0689
6
0.6000
0.1667
7.5281
18.9581
0.1746
7
0.1000
0.2667
2.1187
-0.1382
0.0556
8
0.1500
-0.1833
1.0684
- 15.5543
0.0462
9
0.5750
-0.2083
5.8834
- 1.3865
0.1555
10
-0.6250
-0.5083
- 9.0520
- 1.8772
-0.2345
11
0.4500
0.5167
7.0625
18.9581
0.1624
12
0.8250
0.7417
12.2044
-0.1382
0.3193
13
-0.2750
-0.5583
-5.1931
- 15.5543
-0.1176
14
-0.5750
-0.6583
-9.0173
- 1.3865
-0.2342
15
0.3250
0.2417
4.6252
- 1.8772
0.1231
For the combined intra- and inter-block analysis there is no exact test of the hypothesis of the equality
of treatment means but when this hypothesis is true the quantity ΣP; is approximately distributed as x²
with v-1 degrees of freedom. This quantity is easily obtained by multiplying corresponding items in col-
umns (4) and (6) of Table 14 and adding. Thus
x²=Σî{P₁ = 22.1885,
with 14 degrees of freedom and is not significant at the 5 percent level.
The estimated variance of the difference between two treatments which are first associates (i.e., belong
to the same group) is
2(k-d₁)
r{w'+w(k-1)}
-0.05230.
Likewise the estimated variance of the difference between two treatments which are second associates
(i.e., belong to different groups) is
2(k-d2)
r{w'+w(k-1)}
-0.04995.
estimated average variance is therefore
0.05230 (n-1)+0.04995n (m-1)
v-l
= 0.05029.
49
\n--- PAGE 00000062 ---\nThe estimated variance of the combined intra- and inter-block estimate of a treatment effect is, using
the formulae (3.32) and (3.33),
V() :
=
=
n₁ (k-d₁) + n₂ (k-d2)
vr{w' + (k−1)w}
2(4-0)+12(4-0.1794)
15(4){3.6164+3(11.5420)}
=0.0234675.
Step 6. Summarization of results.
The results of the analysis may be summarized in two tables. Column (2) of Table 15A gives the unad-
justed treatment means obtained by dividing the treatment totals, Ti, taken from Table 8 by r. Column (3)
gives the adjusted means, without recovery of inter-block information, obtained by adding the estimate of
the general mean, G/N, to the intra-block estimates, î₁, obtained from Table 10. Column (4) gives the ad-
justed means with recovery of inter-block information, obtained by adding the estimate of the general mean,
G/N 2.7333, to the combined intra- and inter-block estimates, t, obtained from Table 14.
TABLE 15A
TREATMENT MEANS
Treatment
number
Unadjusted
Adjusted with inter-block information
mean
Not recovered
Recovered
12345
2.775
2.350
2.8577
2.8253
2.3627
2.3553
2.450
2.4483
2.4527
2.950
2.6789
2.7806
2.800
2.8022
2.8022
6
2.925
2.8994
2.9079
7
2.825
2.7710
2.7889
8
2.725
2.8066
2.7795
9
2.825
2.9289
2.8888
10
2.450
2.5272
2.4988
11
2.975
2.8494
2.8957
12
3.125
3.0127
3.0526
13
2.525
2.6649
2.6157
14
2.425
2.5455
2.4991
15
2.875
2.8438
2.8564
Table 15B gives the standard deviations of the estimated treatment means given in columns 3 and 4 of
Table 15A, the standard deviations of the estimated treatment effects (of Table 10 and Table 14), and the
standard deviations of the estimated differences between two treatments.
TABLE 15B
STANDARD DEVIATIONS FOR ESTIMATED TREATMENT EFFECTS
AND TREATMENT DIFFERENCES
Intra-block
Combined intra-
and inter-block
Standard deviation of an estimated treatment mean....
0.1639
0.1676
Standard deviation of estimated treatment difference:
(a) between first associates.....
0.2403
0.2287
(b) between second associates...
0.2322
0.2235
(c) average..
0.2334
0.2243
50
\n--- PAGE 00000063 ---\n4.2. Illustrative example No. 2; desk calculator example. This illustrative example was chosen for a
Model 3 which has a single replication of treatments in each of the positions within blocks. This is design
T33 of Table XI, a triangular design whose association scheme is T(5) of section B of Table II and is given
below:
1 2 3
4
1
5
6
7
2
5
8
9
3 6 8
10
4
7 9
10
*
The design parameters, efficiency factors and computational constants
v = 10, r=4, k=4, b= 10, λ₁ = 1, λ₂ = 2, n=5
=
E₁=0.80, E2=0.87, E=0.82
C₁ =
4
15'
8
C2
H
=
27
A
45
15'
come from Table XI. The plan has been used for two-way elimination of heterogeneity and the blocks (rows)
and positions within blocks (columns) have been randomized separately as instructed for Model 3 designs
wherein we assumed the observation y₁j to be a linear combination
(3.45)
Yij=g+ti + pc + bj+€ij.
In the intra-block analysis we assume that the overall mean, g, the treatment effects, ti (i=1,2, . . ., 10),
the block effects, b; (j=1,2, . . ., 10), and the effects of positions within blocks, pc (c=1,2,3,4), are
fixed, but unknown quantities and the ej are random variables with means 0 and constant variance σ².
For the computation of the analysis of variance, the various estimates of effects ti, bj, and pc and their vari-
ances, no further distributional assumptions about the e₁j's are necessary, but once inferences of probabil-
istic nature are made we shall assume the e's are normally distributed. Recall further that the only subscript
combinations ij that are relevant are for cases for which the treatment labeled i occurs in the block labeled j.
The data for this example were taken from page 45 of BCS (1954) and their source is described below
Table 16.
It is convenient to divide the computation into a number of steps.
Step 1. Preparation of the experimental and treatment allocation plans. The experimental plan, Table
16, shows the block number in the first column. In the second column opposite each block number (and
in the same row) are given the treatments appearing in this block, and below each treatment number is
shown the corresponding observed yield. The third column of the experimental plan shows the block totals,
B₁, obtained by adding the yields of all the plots in the block, (j). The last column of the field plan gives
the block average, Bj/k, obtained by dividing the corresponding item in the previous column by k. It should
be noted that each subcolumn of column (2) gives a complete replication, and the totals of the yields in
these subcolumns given in the last row of Table 16 are replication totals. The total of the third column gives
the grand total, G, of all the observations. Finally below the last column is entered the grand mean, G/N,
for later use (N= vr=bk, being the total number of plots).
51
\n--- PAGE 00000064 ---\nTABLE 16
Block (j)
EXPERIMENTAL PLAN
Treatments and yields
Block total
Bj
Block average
Bj/k
(1)
9
3
7
5
2.54
2.89
2.72
2.28
10.43
2.6075
21
7
2
6
10
2.29
2.51
1.77
1.54
8.11
2.0275
(3)
3
9
1
6
2.29
2.44
2.31
2.49
9.53
2.3825
(4)
6
4
5
8
2.31
2.54
2.81
2.81
10.47
2.6175
(5)
8
1
10
9
2.99
2.86
2.87
2.23
10.95
2.7375
(6)
1
8
4
7
1.65
2.28
2.09
1.57
7.59
1.8975
(7)
4
6
9
2
2.36
3.02
2.12
1.41
8.91
2.2275
(8)
2
7
8
3
1.90
2.60
2.44
1.95
8.89
2.2225
66
5
10
2
1
2.20
2.77
3.06
2.58
10.61
2.6525
(10)
10
5
3
4
2.09
2.07
2.03
2.03
8.22
2.0550
Rep. total
22.62
25.98
24.22
20.89
G=93.71
G/N=2.34275
The observations have been obtained by superposing the design on a part of a blank experiment planted uniformly to Mexican
87 variety of cotton, located on the Upper Coastal Plain Branch Experiment Station, Rocky Mount, North Carolina. This cotton was
grown during 1941. The stand was fairly uniform and all rows received the same fertilizer and cultural treatments. Thirty-six rows, 300
feet long were harvested in sections 25 feet in length. A cord was stretched across the field perpendicular to the rows at intervals of 25
feet. The cotton from each 25 foot plot was harvested, weighed, and the weight recorded separately. These weights varied from 0.93 to
3.25 pounds per plot, with a mean of 2.21 ±.20 pounds. A total of 432 plots were harvested in this manner.
The experimental plan, as it emerged after randomization, was superposed on a randomly selected part of the blank experiment
described above, the blocks being four consecutive plots of the same row, and the replications running perpendicular to the rows over
ten rows.
The treatment allocation plan, Table 17 shows the treatment number in the first column. In the second
column opposite each treatment number (and in the same row) are given the blocks in which this treatment
appears, and below each block number is shown the corresponding observed yield. In the next row of the
second column immediately below the observed yields are shown the block averages (taken from the final
column of the experimental plan, Table 16). The third column gives the treatment total, Ti, and the adjust-
ment, Ti-Qi. The value of Ti is obtained by adding the yields in the second row of the second column
opposite the treatment i. Thus
T₁ = 2.31+2.86+1.65+2.58=9.40,
and the value of T-Qi is obtained by adding the block averages in the third row of the second column
opposite the treatment i. Thus
T₁-Q₁=2.3825 +2.7375 +1.8975+2.6525=9.6700.
I
52
\n--- PAGE 00000065 ---\nTABLE 17
TREATMENT ALLOCATION PLAN
Treatment
i
Block numbers, yields and block averages
T₁ and
Ti-Qi
Qi
Q;
1
(3)
2.31
(5)
2.86
(6)
1.65
(9)
2.58
9.40
2.3825
2.7375
1.8975
2.6525
9.6700
-0.2700 0.2990
2
(2)
(7)
(8)
(9)
2.51
1.41
1.90
3.06
8.88
2.0275
2.2275
2.2225
2.6525
9.1300
-0.2500 -0.2410
3
(1)
(3)
(8)
2.89
2.29
1.95
(10)
2.03
9.16
2.6075
2.3825
2.2225
2.0550
9.2675
-0.1075 -0.1035
(4)
(6)
(7)
(10)
2.54
2.09
2.36
2.03
9.02
2.6175
1.8975
2.2275
2.0550
8.7975
0.2225 -0.5735
5
(1)
(4)
(9)
(10)
2.28
2.81
2.20
2.07
9.36
2.6075
2.6175
2.6525
2.0550
9.9325 -0.5725 0.5615
6
(2)
(3)
(4)
(7)
1.77
2.49
2.31
2.0275
2.3825
2.6175
3.02
2.2275
9.59
9.2550
0.3350 -0.1160
7
(1)
(2)
(6)
(8)
2.72
2.29
1.57
2.60
2.6075
2.0275
1.8975
2.2225
9.18
8.7550
0.4250 -0.6160
8
(4)
2.81
(5)
(6)
(8)
2.99
2.28
2.44
2.6175
2.7375
1.8975
2.2225
10.52
9.4750
1.0450
0.1040
9
(1)
(3)
(5)
2.54
2.44
2.23
(7)
2.12
9.33
2.6075
2.3825
2.7375
2.2275
9.9550 -0.6250 0.5840
10
10
(2)
1.54
(5)
2.87
(9)
2.77
(10)
2.09
9.27
2.0275
2.7375
2.6525
2.0550
9.4725 -0.2025
0.1015
The fourth column of the Table 17 gives the adjusted yields, Qi and the fifth column the quantities Qi
defined by (3.23)
Q=T-Qi-rG/N.
Qi is obtained by subtracting T-Qi from Ti, and Q is obtained by subtracting rG/N=9.3710 from Ti-Qi.
Thus
Q₁ = 9.40-9.6700=-0.2700
Q=9.6700-9.3710=0.2990.
53
\n--- PAGE 00000066 ---\nAs checks on the entries we note that
10
ΣT;=G=93.71= Σ (Ti — Qi)
Σ Ο. = 0.0000
i=1
G=0.
Q' = (1-)c-0.
Step 2. Calculation of S₁(Qi) and the intra-block estimates î. To calculate S₁(Qi), we form the table of
adjusted yields (Table 18) by writing below each treatment, i, in the association scheme, the value of Qi
taken from the fourth column of Table 17, and form the row sums and the column sums. Since treatments in
the same row or column are first associates, S₁(Qi) is obtained by taking the sum of row and column sums
corresponding to the treatment i and subtracting 2Qi. Thus
S₁(Q1)=(-0.405)+(-0.825)-2(-0.2700)=0.0525.
These values are entered in the third column of Table 18.
TABLE 18
Row Sum
x
1
-0.2700
2
-0.2500
3
-0.1075
4
0.2225
-0.4050
1
χ
5
-0.2700
-0.5725
6
0.3350
7
0.4250
-0.0825
2
-0.2500
5
-0.5725
x
8
1.0450
9
-0.6250
-0.4025
3
6
8
x
-0.1075
0.3350
1.0450
10
-0.2025
1.0700
4
0.2225
7
9
0.4250 -0.6250
10
-0.2025
x
-0.1800
Column
Sum
-0.4050
-0.0825
-0.4025
1.0700
-0.1800
x
Now from (3.10) the intra-block estimate, ti, of the treatment effect, ti, is given by
îi
=
k-c2
C1-C2
Qi
i+
r(k-1) r(k-1)
S₁ (Qi)
=
―
45
=0.28889Q-0.022222S, (Qi).
The calculation of t can be systematically exhibited in Table 19. A check is obtained by remembering
that
every column except the first should add up to zero.
54
\n--- PAGE 00000067 ---\nTABLE 19
INTRA-BLOCK ESTIMATES OF TREATMENT EFFECTS
Treatment i
Qi
S₁(Q₁)
î
1234567890
-0.2700
0.0525
-0.07917
-0.2500
-0.3075
-0.06539
-0.1075
0.8800
-0.05061
0.2225
- 1.0300
0.08717
-0.5725
0.6600
-0.18006
0.3350
0.3175
0.08972
0.4250
-1.1125
0.14750
1.0450
- 1.4225
0.33350
-0.6250
-0.2025
0.6675
1.2950
-0.19539
-0.08728
Step 3. Intra-block analysis of variance. Because we have complete replications orthogonal to the
blocks, the intra-block analysis follows Table 3 of section 2 where r'=4, n=1. We make the following
calculations.
(a) S="Treatments adjusted" sum of squares
=
= (-0.07917) (-0.2700)+...+(-0.08728) (-0.2025)
=0.7467
is obtained by multiplying corresponding items in columns (4) and (2) of Table 19 and adding.
(b) Sum of squares attributable to the overall mean,
G2/N (93.71)2/40=219.5391.
(c) S²="Blocks unadjusted" sum of squares
=[10.432+8.112+ . . . +8.222] — (93.71)2/40
=891.0701/4-219.5391
S2=222.7675-219.5391
= 3.2284
is obtained by squaring the items in column (3) of Table 16 and subtracting the correction factor, G²/N.
(d) S2="Replication groups" sum of squares
r' R2 G2
nv
N
(22.62)2+(25.98)2 + (24.22)2 + (20.89)2 (93.71)2
10
=2209.6253/10-219.5391
40
= 1.4234
where the values of Re are obtained from the totals in the last row of column (2) of Table 16.
55
\n--- PAGE 00000068 ---\n(e) S2 Total sum of squares
(93.71)2
= (2.54)²+(2.89)2+...+ (2.03)2 —.
-
40
=226.5727-219.5391
= 7.0336
is obtained by taking the sum of squares of all the observed yields and subtracting the correction factor,
G2IN.
(f) S2="Error sum of squares"
=
= Total sum of squares -S-S2-S
=7.0336-0.7467-3.2284 - 1.4234
= 1.6351
(g) The treatment mean square, s2=0.082967, and error mean square, s2=0.09084, are obtained by
dividing the corresponding sums of squares s2, s2 by the respective degrees of freedom, and finally the F-ratio
s/s2 is obtained by dividing the treatment mean square by the error mean square.
We thus get the following intra-block analysis of variance table.
TABLE 20
INTRA-BLOCK ANALYSIS OF VARIANCE
(REPLICATIONS ORTHOGONAL TO BLOCKS)
Source of
variation
Degrees of
freedom
Sum of squares
Treatments
v-1=9
S2=0.7467
Mean square
F-ratio
s2=0.08297
0.193
(adjusted)
Blocks
b-1=9
St2=3.2284
(unadjusted)
Replications
Error
r'-1=3
N-b-v-r'
+2=18
Sz=1.4234
S² = 1.6351
s2=0.4745
s2=0.09084
5.22
Total
N-1=39
S2=7.0336
F= s2/s2=0.913
The F-ratio for testing the significance of the treatment effects is less than one and is not significant, while
that for replication effects is significant at the a=0.05 level.
The estimate of the variance of a treatment effect estimate is given by
V (îi):
=
n₁ (k − c₁)+ną (k − C₂)
vr (k-1)
-
s2
64
6 (4-15)+3(4-15) 0.09084
10(4)(3)
8
41
=
150
(0.09084)
= = 0.02483.
56
\n--- PAGE 00000069 ---\nThe variance of the difference between the effects of the ith and uth treatments is given by (3.11) and
is estimated by replacing o² by s2 (taken from Table 20). Hence the estimated variance of the difference
between two treatments which are first associates (i.e., occur in the same row or column of the association
scheme) is
-
V (î₁ — îu) = 2s² k — c₁ _ 2 (0.09084) (4 — 8/15)
V(îì—
=
r k-l
=
4(4-1)
=28(.09084)/45
= 0.05652.
Likewise the estimated variance of the difference between two treatments which are second associates (i.e.,
do not occur in the same row or column of the association scheme) is
e
2s2k-c₂
r k-1
=
2(0.09084) (4-8/15)/4(3)
26
=
(0.09084)
45
= = 0.05249.
Since each treatment has n₁ = 2n-4 first associates and n₂ = (n − 2) (n −3)/2 second associates, and
n=5 in this example, the estimated average variance is
[0.05652(6)+0.05249 (3)]/9=0.05518.
Step 4. Inter-block analysis of variance and the estimation of the weights w and w', and the coefficients
d, and d₂. The inter-block analysis of variance follows Table 6 of section 2 since there are replication groups
orthogonal to the blocks. Because each replication group contains exactly one replication, r' = 4 and n=1.
The following calculations are to be made.
(a) S2="Treatments unadjusted" sum of squares
=
G2
r N
(9.40)2+(8.88)2+
4
=879.9827/4-219.5391
= 0.4566
•
+(9.27)2 (93.71)2
40
is obtained in the usual manner by squaring the treatment totals Ti (from column (3) of Table 17) and adding
them together, dividing by the number of replications, and subtracting the correction factor, G²/N.
(b) S="Blocks adjusted" sum of squares is obtained by subtraction, i.e., by using the formula
S=S2-S2-S-S2
=7.0336-0.4566-1.4234-1.6351
= 3.5185
where the total sum of squares, S2, the replication groups sum of squares, S3, and the error sum of squares,
S2, are taken from the intra-block analysis of variance Table 20. We thus get the following table.
57
\n--- PAGE 00000070 ---\nTABLE 21
AUXILIARY TABLE FOR INTER-BLOCK ANALYSIS OF VARIANCE
Source of
Degrees of
variation
freedom
Treatments
v-1=9
(unadjusted)
Blocks
Sum of squares
Expectation of the
sum of squares
S'²=0.4566
b-1=9
S3=3.5185
90²+30σ%
(adjusted)
Replication
r' -1=3
S=1.4234
groups
Error
N-b-v-r'
+2=18
S2=1.6351
1802
Total
N-1=39
S²=7.0336
(c) The estimates of σ² and σf are obtained by equating S2 and S2 to their expectations. Thus
Sz = (b−1)ô² + (N−v)ô?
S²= (N-b-v— r'+2)ô².
This gives
where s² is the error mean square, and
ô² = s22
=
b
N
-
St
sz=
=
=0.39094.
b-1
is the "blocks adjusted" mean square. Hence
2=0.09084
G =0.09003
1
1
w=
w'
=
0.09084
= 11.0084
1
2+ko
1
0.09084+4(0.09003)
= 1/0.45096
= 2.2175
58
\n--- PAGE 00000071 ---\nw'
2.2175
W: =
di
=
=
w-w
11.0084-2.2175
2.2175
8.7909
= 0.2522
C₁A+ rλ₁W
A+rHW+r² W²
45
+4(0.2522)
15
4
45
+4 (27) (0.2522) +16(0.2522)²
=4.0088/19.0771
=0.2101
d2
=
C₂A+ rλ2W
A+rHW+r² W²
8
15
:) (
45+4 (27)
45
+4(2) (0.2522)
(27) (0.2522) +16(0.2522)²
=8.0176/19.0771
= = 0.4203
Step 5. Calculation of P₁, S₁(Q) and the inter-block estimates t'. To obtain Q, we subtract rG/N=9.37100
from Ti-Q (third row of column (3), opposite treatment i, in Table 17). The values of Q are entered in
column (3) of Table 23. We now calculate P; using
P₁=wQi+w'Q'
= 11.0084Q₁+2.2175Q'
where w and w' are given above. The values of P¡ are entered in column (4) of Table 23.
The calculation of S₁(P) is similar to that of S₁(Qi). The values of P; are entered below each treatment in
the association scheme (Table 22) and the row sums and column sums are formed. Then S₁(P¡) is obtained
by taking the sum of the row and column sums corresponding to the treatment i and subtracting 2P₁. Thus
S₁(P₁)=(-5.8308)+(−0.6233)-2(-2.3092)=-1.8357
59
\n--- PAGE 00000072 ---\nTABLE 22
AUXILIARY TABLE FOR CALCULATING S₁(P₁)
Row Sum
x
1
-2.3092
2
3
4
-3.2864
- 1.4128
1.1776
-5.8308
1
x
5
- 2.3092
-5.0572
6
3.4305
7
3.3126
-0.6233
2
-3.2864
5
x
-5.0572
8
11.7343
9
-5.5852
-2.1945
3
6
8
x
- 1.4128
3.4305
11.7343
10
-2.0041
11.7479
4
1.1776
7
9
3.3126 -5.5852
10
-2.0041
x
-3.0991
Column
Sum
-5.8308 -0.6233
-2.1945
11.7479
-3.0991
x
The values of S₁(Pi) are entered in column (5) of Table 23. From (3.30) the combined intra- and inter-
block estimate, t, of the treatment effect, ti, is given by
(3.46)
k-d₂
r{w'+w(k-1)}
= aPi+BS₁(Pi)
Pi+
di-d₂
r{w'+w(k-1)}
S₁(Pi)
where a=0.02539, B=-0.001491.
Then (3.46) is used to calculate the entries for t in Table 23. A check is obtained by recalling that all
columns except the first should add up to zero.
TABLE 23
COMBINED INTRA- AND INTER-BLOCK ESTIMATES
OF TREATMENT EFFECTS
Treatment i
Qi
Pi
S₁(P)
10
1234567898
-0.2700
0.2990
-0.2500
-0.2410
-2.3092
-3.2864
-1.8357
-0.05590
-1.4525
-0.08128
-0.1075
-0.1035
- 1.4129
8.7427
-0.04890
0.2225
-0.5725
-0.5735
0.5615
1.1776
-5.0572
- 11.2854
0.04671
0.3350
-0.1160
3.4305
7.2966
4.2636
-0.13927
0.08075
0.4250
-0.6160
3.3126
- 10.3476
0.09952
1.0450
0.1040
11.7343
- 13.9452
0.31867
-0.6250
0.5840
-5.5852
5.8768
-0.15056
-0.2025
0.1015
-2.0041
12.6570
-0.06974
For the combined intra- and inter-block analysis there is no exact test of the hypothesis of the equality of
treatment means, but when this hypothesis is true, the quantity ΣP; is approximately distributed as x²
60
\n--- PAGE 00000073 ---\nwith v-1 degrees of freedom. This quantity is easily obtained by multiplying corresponding items in columns
(4) and (6) of Table 23 and adding. Thus
x²=Σ î;P₁=6.5518
with 9 degrees of freedom. Since 0.50 < p(x²) < 0.70, x² is obviously nonsignificant, as it should be.
The estimated variance of the difference between two treatments which are first associates, i.e., occur
in the same row or column of the association scheme, is
2(k-d₁)
r{w'+w(k−1)}
=7.5798/140.9708 0.053769.
The estimated variance of the difference between two treatments which are second associates is
2(k-d2)
r{w'+w(k−1)}
=
7.1595/140.9708 0.050787.
The estimated average variance is
[6(0.05377)+3(0.05079)]/9=0.05277.
Using the formula (3.32), we obtain for the estimated variance of the combined intra- and inter-block
estimate of the treatment effect, î,
V (†{) :
=
=
-
n₁ (k − d₁) + n₂ (k − d½)
vr{w' + (k-1)w}
6(4-0.2101)+3(4-0.4203)
10(4){2.2175+3(11.0084)}
= 0.02375.
Step 6. Summary of results. We summarize the results for this data analysis in two tables. The estimated
Treatment means, Table 24A, consists of the unadjusted means obtained by dividing the values of T¿ from
Table 17 by r=4, the adjusted treatment means without recovery of inter-block information which are
obtained by adding G/N=2.34275 of the t; from Table 19 and the adjusted treatment means obtained by
adding G/N to the combined intra- and inter-block estimates of Table 23. A second summary table, Table
24B, provides the estimated standard deviations of the estimated treatment means, treatment effects and
treatment differences.
TABLE 24A
ESTIMATED TREATMENT MEANS
Adjusted with inter-block information
Treatment
number
Unadjusted mean
Not recovered
Recovered
1234567890
2.3500
2.2636
2.2869
2.2200
2.2774
2.2615
2.2900
2.2921
2.2939
2.2550
2.4299
2.3895
2.3400
2.1627
2.2035
2.3975
2.4325
2.4235
2.2950
2.4903
2.4423
2.6300
2.6763
2.6614
2.3325
2.1474
2.1922
2.3175
2.2555
2.2730
61
\n--- PAGE 00000074 ---\nTABLE 24B
STANDARD DEVIATIONS FOR ESTIMATED TREATMENT
EFFECTS AND TREATMENT DIFFERENCES
Intra-block
Combined intra-
and inter-block
Standard deviation of estimated treatment means....
0.1646
0.1871
Standard deviation of estimated treatment differences:
(a) between first associates......
(b) between second associates..
(c) average..
0.2377
0.2319
0.2291
0.2254
0.2349
0.2297
5. Computer analysis. In this section the analysis of partially balanced block designs is given in a
general form suitable for programming an electronic computer. The three models of section 2 are discussed
separately in subsections, treating separately the case where the blocks are regarded as parameters (intra-
block analysis) and the case where the block values are regarded as random variables (inter-block analysis).
Partitioned matrices are used to show ways to reduce the size of matrices to be inverted. In the case of one
or more missing observations it may be possible to solve by use of linear regression techniques on the
observation equations.
In this section and in section 6, matrices and vectors are denoted by bold face letters; elements of
matrices are denoted by the corresponding lower case letters, e.g., C= (cij). Otherwise, notation is con-
sistent with the foregoing sections unless specially defined in these sections.
5.1. Intra-block analysis.
5.1.1. Model 1: No replication grouping. The expected value and variance of the observation on the
ith treatment in the jth block are
E(yij) = g+ti + bj
V(yij) = σ².
The assignment of treatments to blocks can be represented by the incidence matrix, N, of the design where
N is the v by b matrix which has the value 1 in the (i, j)th cell if treatment i occurs in block j and zero other-
wise. For example, for the v=4, b=8, r=4, k=2 design, R1, the incidence matrix is
N=
=
1
0 0 1
1 0 1 0
0 1 1 0 1 0 0 1
1 0 0 1 0 1 0 1
0
1 1 0 0 1 1 0
The least squares estimates of the unknowns b' (b₁, b2, .
expressed in the normal equations
=
b) and t' = (t1, t2,
., tt) can be
bk kl' rl' 0 0
g
G
kl kl N'
1 0
b
B
rl N rI 01
t
=
T
0
1' 0 0 0
01
0
0
0 1' 0 0
02
0
62
\n--- PAGE 00000075 ---\nwhere 1' = (1, 1, . . ., 1) and 01 and 02 are Lagrangian multipliers entering in the minimization.* (Dimen-
sions of the submatrices may be inferred from the dimensions of N and N'.) On the right-hand side G is
the grand total of all observations, B is the vector of block totals and T is the vector of treatment totals.
The inverse of the matrix of normal equations can be written
1
bk
0.1
18
1
(3.47)
0.1'
0.1
I+
(1+NCN-J
bk
N
N'C
1
1
0.1
0.1
-c
CN
C
0.1
1
-༠
1'
0.1' 0
0
0.1'
l'
0
0
บ
1
0
bk
18
v
0
E D'
18
1
0
=
0
D C
0
1
1
I'
0
0
b
b
0
l'
0
0
บ
where C = k (rkI — NN'‍+kJ)-—
-1
J, J=11' is a matrix of all ones, and D, E are defined by (3.47). The
by v matrix C is the basic matrix of the analysis and its computation should present no problems because
(rkINN'+kJ) is well conditioned for PBIB designs.
Parameter estimates
The estimates of the parameters of the design and their variances are as follows:
(a) grand mean
G
bk
V(8) = = k
1
σ-2
*The standard practice of introducing a grand mean, and having to then impose the restraints that block and treatment effects sum to zero is convenient and causes no confusion
when only contrasts among treatments or among blocks are to be studied. When other functions of the parameters are of interest it is necessary to formulate the statistical model
for one's experiment in terms of the parameters g, t₁, and b,; otherwise, the block estimate and variances and covariances may be incorrectly interpreted. An example may point
up the problem. Consider a case where the blocks are different environmental conditions and the treatments are methods, one of which, t₁, is regarded as the standard method.
One would wish to estimate the parameters for "conditions" as
and for methods one would have
8++ b, (block values under standard method t₁)
g+t+b (treatment values under standard conditions)
where the conditions of the first block, b₁, are regarded as standard.
There is also a question of the interpretation of the grand mean. Note that in a repetition of the design with the same blocks but with say one treatment changed to produce
a difference in effect of A, then the effect of the restraint is to change the expected value of g by A/v. For this reason, it is difficult to attach physical meaning to the parameter g.
63
\n--- PAGE 00000076 ---\n(b) treatment values
î= DB + CT = C(T — — NB ) = CQ
-
V (îì) = Cùσ²=C1102
where Q is defined, as in eq (3.1), as
Q=T-—_ NB
treatment difference=t-î;
V(-îj) = 20² (Cii - Cij). Note that there will be two values for this variance
depending on whether t; and t; are first associates or second associates. For some purposes it is worth re-
cording the maximum of these two values, one depending on C12 and the other on c₁ where I is the first value
of c₁ for which C12 C11.
(c) block values
Î=EB+D'T=
= (B-N'î)
V(bi) = e¡¡σ²=e1102
difference between blocks=Î¿ — Î¿
-
V (Â¡—bj) = 2σ² (e¡¡— ejj)
(d) predicted value
(e) variance
ju=8+₁+b; V(su)=(3x+cute, +2dy) o
tôi tôi
V(ŷʊ)
-+Cii
bk
+ejj
Σ(Yu-ŷü)²
bk-b-v+1
2
(f) linear combinations
treatment estimates for “standard” block b₁ (treatment i)=ĝ+ĥ₁+ îi
V (treatment i)=(¿¿+ci
1
bk
+ CH + e11 +2dil) σ²
treatment plus mean
8+ îi
V (Ê + î) = ( 11x+cH) σ²
Cii
bk
Analysis of variance
The analysis of variance can be computed as shown in Table 1. It should be noted, however, that the
error sum of squares can easily be calculated directly in the computer from the formula
S²=Σ(yu-ŷü)².
---
Both formulas should be used and compared as a check against computational errors.
5.1.2. Model 2: Groups of blocks form complete replications. If the blocks are grouped in such a way
that within each of r' groups each treatment is replicated n times then the analysis is slightly modified.
The basic structure of the experiment may be expressed as
E(yijc)=g+ti + pc + bj
64
\n--- PAGE 00000077 ---\nwhere the block parameters, bj, sum to zero within replication groups. This involves a transformation of
the original block parameters (denoted by bº) to a new set including the r'=r/n replication parameters
p' (p₁,..., Pr'):
=
[B
=
-15
bn
bn
b1-J
1'
bn
I
][b]
The only parameter estimates and variances affected are those involved in this transformation. In the
analysis of variance table for Model 1, Table 1, the line for "Blocks (unadjusted)" is replaced by the two
lines
Replication groups
M:
ŹR₂
cmj
r'-1
S2
nv
312
G2
S/(r' -1)
N
r'
B2 R2
Blocks within replication groups
C=1
b-r'
k
nv
where Re is the sum of all observations within the cth replication group. (cf. Table 2.)
The variances of the block estimates are reduced by σ2/nv from the values given for Model 1. The vari-
ances of estimates of the difference between blocks are unchanged for those pairs of blocks in the same
replication group but are reduced by 2σ²/nv for pairs of blocks in different replication groups.
The replication estimates and their variances are
Re G
pc
N
nv
-
V (pc) = '' — 1 σ²
-
nvr'
The predicted values and error variance estimate will be unchanged although computed with the addi-
tional parameters.
5.1.3. Model 3: Replication groups orthogonal to blocks (Youdenized). When the treatments can be
arranged within the blocks (represented as rows of k treatments) in such a way that n complete replica-
65
\n--- PAGE 00000078 ---\ntions occur in each of k' =k/n groups of one or more columns of the design, as in a Youden Square, the
model for the design can be written
Yijcg+ti+b; + pc + Eijc
where g, ti, bj, and Eije are defined as before and pc satisfies the restraint Σpe=0. Because the replica-
tion grouping is orthogonal to the blocks and treatments, the only change in the analysis has to do with
the error estimate.
In the analysis of variance table for Model 1, Table 1, the line for "Error" is replaced by two lines
k'
Σ R2
Replications
k' - 1
C=1
G2
Sz/(k' - 1)
S2
ην N
Error
N-v-b-k' +2
S=Σ (Yije-Yije)'
S2 (N-v-b-k' +2)
c
where Re is the total of all the observations in the cth replication group (cf. Table 3). The predicted values
will become
which will have variance
ŷijc =g tôi tôi tôi
ĝ +
+ c
V(ŷije) = (1/1/
+ Cii + ejj + 2dij +
bk
+ 2d₁, +11)σ².
nv
The estimate of a replication effect is given by
Pc
Re
=
and its variance by
nv
T
012
G
N
k' - 1
V(pc)
=
σ2.
vnk'
5.2. Block effects are random variables (inter-block analysis).
5.2.1. Model 1: No replication grouping. In the inter-block analysis the observation on the ith treat-
ment in block j is regarded as having the structure*
Yij = ti+nj + Eij
where t is a treatment mean (equivalent to g+t; in previous models) and n; and e₁j are random variables
with mean zero and variances V(n;)=σ} and V(€¡j) =σ², all being uncorrelated. Denote the vector of
observations in the jth block by y;. Then the expected values and variances can be written
E(yj) = Rjt
V(y;) = σ²I + of J = M
*The grand mean has been deliberately omitted because its introduction would force the use of an artificial restraint on the treatment parameters and thereby unnecessarily
complicate the analysis.
66
\n--- PAGE 00000079 ---\nwhere R, is a k× v matrix with a row for each observation having a one in the column corresponding to
the appropriate treatment and zeros otherwise, and J is a matrix of all ones.
The inverse of M is
In keeping with the usual notation let
so that M-1 may be written
M
=
I
σε
σ² (σ² + ko?)
J.
w=
and
w'
1
σ² + ko?
M-¹=wl — —-— (w — w' ) J.
· (w−
The quantities w and w' which enter into the above equations are not known and have to be estimated from
the observations themselves. This is done by forming an auxiliary analysis of variance table as shown in
Table 4. By equating S and S2 to their respective expected values, one obtains
=
(bk-b-v+1)
S2
and
v(r-1)
w' =
kSz
(v-k)S?
(bk-v-b+1) •
The normal equations for the least squares estimates, î, are given by
[Ri, R2,
R]
M-1
0
R₁t
M-1
R2
M-1
Ro
=
= [R1, R2, .
.9
R']
M-1
M-1
0
Yı
Y2
M-1
Ув
67
\n--- PAGE 00000080 ---\nThe estimates can be written
(3.48)
i = (wrI
wrI — — (w—w') NN')-¹ (wT— — (w−w') NB
where T is the vector of totals for the treatments and B is the vector of block totals. The variances of the
treatment estimates are given by
1
V (ti) = uii
V (t-ĝ) = un-
vrw'
-
V (îì— îj) = 2 (µ¿i — Uij)
-
NN') -1.
where u and u are the variance and covariance terms from the matrix U=(wrI-— (w−w') NN'
(Note that this matrix is not multiplied by 2 because the actual variances and covariances are used in
weights of the analysis, or more exactly, estimates ŵ amd ŵ' of the weights.)
5.2.2. Model 2: Groups of blocks form complete replications. If groups of blocks have associated with
them fixed effects, pc, and if the blocks that make up the group contain n complete replications, then the
analysis can be modified quite simply. The structure of the experiment is represented by the observational
equation
Vijc―ti + Pc+nj + Eijc
where the replication parameters, pc, sum up to zero.
In the analysis of variance, the block sum of squares is partitioned as shown in section 5.1.2. The ex-
pected values of the sums of squares are
E(S2) = (b-r') o² + (N −v-kr' + k) of
E (S²) = (N − v − b + 1) σ²
from which one solves for o² and σ by using the observed values in place of the expected values. The
values for w = 1/σ² and w' = 1/(σ² + ko?) are then computed and used as in the analysis given in section
5.2.1.
The replication parameter estimates are given by
with variance
Rc
pc
=
nv
012
G
N
V(pc)=
r'-1 k(r'-1)
=
σ2+
02.
vnr'
vnr'
5.2.3. Replication groups orthogonal to blocks (Youdenized). When the treatments are arranged in
complete replications by rows of the design as described in section 5.1.3., then the model becomes
Yijcti+ Pc + Nj + Eijc.
As before, because the replications are orthogonal to blocks and treatments, the only change has to do with
the partitioning of the error estimate. This is carried out exactly as in the intra-block analysis.
68
\n--- PAGE 00000081 ---\n6. Example. The example given here is the same as the second example given in section 4. The plan
used is the triangular design T33 of Table XI with parameters v = 10, r=4, k=4, b = 10. Each position
within blocks provides a replication (as in Model 3). The plan and data are repeated in Table 25 for complete-
ness, along with the block totals.
It should be pointed out that the purpose of this section is not to show how to write a computer pro-
gram for the analysis of partially balanced designs, but to provide numerical results to aid in checking
intermediate (and final) results of such a program. Note also that some of the intermediate results given
in this section may not agree with their counterparts in section 4.2. For an additional example done in the
style of this section, see the example given in John [1972].
TABLE 25
EXPERIMENTAL PLAN
Treatments and yields
Block (j)
Block total Bj
(1)
9
3
7
5
10.43
2.54
2.89
2.72
2.28
(2)
7
2
6
10
2.29
2.51
1.77
1.54
8.11
(3)
3
9
1
6
2.29
2.44
2.31
2.49
9.53
(4)
6
4
5
8
2.31
2.54
2.81
2.81
10.47
(5)
8
1
10
9
2.99
2.86
2.87
2.23
10.95
(6)
1
8
4
7
1.65
2.28
2.09
1.57
7.59
(7)
4
6
9
2
2.36
3.02
2.12
1.41
8.91
(8)
2
7
8
3
1.90
2.60
2.44
1.95
8.89
(9)
5
10
2
1
2.20
2.77
3.06
2.58
10.61
(10)
10
5
3
2.09
2.07
2.03
2.03
8.22
Rep. total
22.62
25.98
24.22
20.89
G = 93.71
6.1. Intra-block analysis. The incidence matrix N, which is of size v = 10 by b=10
0
0
1
0
1
1
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
1
1
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
1
1
0
0
1
N=
1
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
1
1
1
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
1
1
0
1
0
0
1
0
1
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
1
69
\n--- PAGE 00000082 ---\nNote that the row sums of N are r=4 and the column sums are k=4.
4
1
1
4
1
1
1 1
12
122
2 2 2
22
17
21
1
1
1
1
1 2 2
2
4
1
2
1 2 1 2
1
1
1
1
4
2
2 1 2
1
1
2
2
4
1
1
21
1
1
1
2
NN'=
1
2
1
2
1
4
1 1 2
1
1
2112
222
2
2
1
1
1
4 2
1
1
2
1
1
2 4
24
1
1
1
1
1
2
2
1
1
2
1
1
4
1
1
1
2
1
1
1
1
4
Note that the row sum of NN' is rk = 16.
The matrix to be inverted is
(rkl-NN'+kJ) =
2 2 2
3
3
2
3
2323
2
2 3
2
223 3 2 3 3
233 2332
2 16 3 3
3 16
336
3 3 16
322333b233
16
2
2
16
3
3
3
2
3
2
16
3
3
2
16 2
3
3
3
2
2
3
32323
3322 6 3 3 3 3
333
3
3
33
3 16
363
16
223 23 ∞
323
3 3
6333
16
3
2
2
3
2323
2
3
2332
2
333222
Note that the row sum (=
The inverse is
column sum) = vk = 40.
where
(rkINN'+kJ)-¹ =
51
- 5
---
- 5
- 5
- 5
-
- 5
-
-
-
1
-
720
555555
51
-5
- 5
- 5
- 5
– 5 - 5
-
555TISS
51
- 5
-
551
- 5
-----
- 5
- 1
- 1
51
-
- 1
-
1
-
- 5
1
- 5
- 1
- 5
- 1
-
-5
51
-1
---
1 -5
-
- 1
1
---
-
-
- 1
-1
-
- 1
- 1
- 5
-
-1
-
-
5
-1
-
5
-
1
- 5
- 1 -5
-
- 5
- 5
-1
-5 -5
5555
51
51 - 5
-
- 5
-5
-
- 5
-
- 5
5 5
-1
-5
-
-
- 5
51
- 1
- 5
- 5
- 1
51
- 5
-
-1
-
-5
-5
51551555
-1
- 5
-
- 5
- 1
-
- 5
-5
- 5
551555
-5
-5 -5
-1 -5
- 5
- 5
-5
151
51
720
= 0.0708333.
5
=- 0.0069444
...9
720
1
78
720
-=-
0.0013888 ....
70
\n--- PAGE 00000083 ---\n1
18 1
The row sums are
vk
=
·
720
40
where
The matrix C of the inverse of the matrix of normal equations (see eq 3.47) is
123
- 17
17
C
=
450
-
123
- 17
- 17
- 17
- 17
-
17
- 17
- 7
- 7
-
-7
- 17
-
-
-
-
17
-7
-
7
- 17
-
-
17
- 7
-
17
- 7
-
-
- 17
- 7
-
17
- 17
―
-
-
- 7
- 17
17
-
- 17
- 17
-
-
7
-
- 17
-
17
-
- 17
-
17
---
- 17
- 7
- 17
-
17
17
- 7
-7
123
- 17
7
-
- 7
- 17
123
-7
-
- 7
- 7
123
-
-7
- 17
-
- 17
- 17
-
- 17
- 7
-7-17
-
- 17
-
- 17
-
- 17
- 7
- 17
123
-
- 17
17
- 17
-
123
-
- 17
-
-7
-
-
17
17
-7
---
123
- 17
- 17
-
-
7
17
-
- 17
-
17
- 17
123
- 17
-7
-
- 17
- 17
- 17
123
- 17
-
-7
- 17
-
7
-
-7
7
- 17
- 17
-
- 17
-
123
450
= 0.27333 . .
- 17
450
- 7
450
=
- 0.03777...
- 0.01555 . . .
The row sums are zero.
Some useful vectors that depend on the data, the treatment totals T, NB, and Q=T-NB/k, are given
below:
T
NB
Q
9.40
38.68
- 0.2700
8.88
36.52
- 0.2500
9.16
37.07
-0.1075
9.02
35.19
0.2225
9.36
39.73
-0.5725
9.59
37.02
0.3350
9.18
35.02
0.4250
10.52
37.90
1.0450
9.33
39.82
-0.6250
9.27
37.89
-0.2025
Totals 93.71
374.84
0
Note that the vector of treatment totals sums to the grand total, G, NB sums to kG and Q must sum to zero.
The analysis of variance table, Table 20, and treatment effect estimates, Table 19, and various variance
estimates are given in section 4.2.
71
\n--- PAGE 00000084 ---\nThe block estimates, &, and position effect estimates, ô, along with their standard deviations are given
below:
ĥ
ρ
2.67714
2.00636
2.44136
2.53492
-0.08075
s.d. (b) = 0.16462
0.25525
0.07925
-0.25375
s.d. (p) = 0.17361
2.74458
1.77525
2.24847
2.13125
2.75547
2.11269
6.2. Inter-block analysis. The auxiliary analysis of variance table is given in Table 21. The weights are
ŵ = 11.00874
The matrix to be inverted is
where
ŵ'
=
2.217455.
a
b b
b
b b b c
b
a
b
b
b
c
C
b
43
C
b
C
b
b
a
b
C
b
C
b
C
b
b
b
b
a
C
C
b
C
b
b
(wrl – (w — ŵ') NN'):
=
b
b
C
C
a
b
b
b
b
k
b
C
b
C
b
a
b
b
C
b
b
C
C
b
b
b
a
C
b
b
C
b
b C
b
b
C
a
b
b
C
b
C
49
C
C b b
b
b
90
C
b
b
a
b
c b
b
b
b
a
and
a = 35.2437
b 2.19782
c = 4.39564.
The inverse, U, has the same pattern, with the values for the corresponding element being
ua = 0.035022
and
up 0.0081387
Uc 0.0096292.
72
\n--- PAGE 00000085 ---\nSome useful vectors for the estimation of the treatment means, ŵT, (ŵ—ŵ')N · B/k and their difference
ŵT — (ŵ — ŵ' )N · B/k are given below:
-
·
ŵT
(ŵ — ŵ')N · B/k
Difference
103.4822
85.0117
18.4704
97.7576
80.2644
17.4932
100.8401
81.4732
19.3668
99.2988
77.3413
21.9575
103.0418
87.3194
15.7224
105.5738
81.3634
24.2105
101.0602
76.9677
24.0925
115.8120
83.2974
32.5145
102.7116
87.5172
15.1943
102.0510
83.2755
18.7756
The estimates of the inter-block treatment means are given in Table 24A (4th column) and their standard
deviations in Table 24B. The position effect estimates are unchanged from the intra-block analysis.
73
\n--- PAGE 00000086 ---\nTABLE 0.- Auxiliary table for identifying designs of potential interest according to the magnitudes of parameters k and v
v
r
b
Ref. No.
ν
T
b
Ref. No.
k=2
6
2
4
SR18
3
6
R42
4
2
4
SR1
4
8
SR19
4
8
R1, SR2
6
12
R43, R44, SR20
10
R2, R3
7
14
R45, R46
6
12
R4, SR3
8
16
R47, R48, SR21
7
14
R5, R6, R7
9
18
R49, R50, R51, R52
8
16
R8, R9, R10, SR4
10
20
R53, SR22
9
18
R11, R12, R13
8
3
8
R54
10
20
R14, R15, R16, R17, SR5
6
16
R55
5
2
5
C1
9
24
R56, R57, R58
4
10
C2
9
2
6
LS7
6
15
C3, C6
3
9
SR23
8
20
C4, C7
4
12
LS8
10
25
C5, C8, C9
5
15
R59
6 3
9
SR6
6
18
R60, SR24, LS9, LS12
4
12
R18
7
21
R61, R62
6
18
R19, SR7
8
24
R63, LS10, LS13
7
21
R20, R21
9
27
R64, R65, SR25
8
24
R22, R23, R24
10
30
R66, R67, R68, LS11, LS14, LS15
9
27
R25, R26, R27, SR8
10
3
10
T9
10
30
R28
6
20
R69, T10, T12
8
4
16
SR9
9
30
T11, T13
6
24
R29
12
8
32
R30, SR10
∞
9
36
R31
10
40
R32, R33
4
18
LS1
45678
16
SR26
20
R70
24
R71
28
R72, R73
32
R74, SR27
6
27
R34
9
36
R75
8
36
LS2
10
40
R76, R77, R78
10
45
R35
13
3
13
C16
10
3
15
T2
6
26
C17
5
25
SR11
9
36
C18, C19
6
30
T1, T3
14
6
28
R79
8
40
R36
9
45
T4
15
10
50
R37, SR12
12
6
36
SR13
8
48
R38
9
54
R39
10
60 R40
9345689
42
R80
15
T16, PG1
20
T14
25
SR28
30
R81, T17, M8
40
R82, T15
45
R83, R84, T19, M9
17
15
375
13 6
39
C10
10
50
R85, SR29, T18
7
49
SR14
16
6
45 T6
36
16
LS18, M10
32 R86, LS16, LS19, M11
8
60 T5
9
48
R87, LS17, LS20, LS21, M12, M13
10
75
R41
18
16
5
40
MI
6
48
LS3, M2
16
8
64
SR15
9
72
LS4, M5
22
20
21
10
80
M3, M4
17
8
68
C11
18 9
81 SR16
10
223229
20 10 100 SR17
24
21 10 105 T7, T8
25
8
100 LS5
26 10
130 M6
10
k=3
27 10 135 M7
36 10 180 LS6
5 3
369
585
323
25
27 5
10
28
10
C12
C13
15 C14, C15
689957agbago nagbgarg
36
SR30
48
R88
54
R89
60 R90
35
T20
49
SR31
63
R91
70
T21, T22
64
SR32
72
R92
80
R93
50
LS22
45
PG2
9
81 SR33
90 M14
6
30 10 100 SR34
89388
35 9
105
36 7
M15
84 T24
36 10 120 LS23
56 T23
74
\n--- PAGE 00000087 ---\nTABLE 0.-Auxiliary table for identifying designs of potential interest according to the magnitudes of parameters k and v—Continued
V
r b
Ref. No.
v
r b
Ref. No.
k=3, continued
37
55
81
986968
549438
111
C20
23
28
7
49
SR48
120 T25
98 LS24
8
56
R130, T39
10
70
R131, T40
165 T26
66 10
220
T27
216
LS25
10
270
M15A
223
30
10
75
R132
32 8
64
SR49
36
7
63
T41
9
81
SR50
40
4
40
PG3
k=4
8
80
M19
10
100
SR51
6 2
4
6
8
12
10
15
36925
S1
S2, R94
S3, SR35
49
8
98
LS46
91
8
182
T42
136
10
340
T43
S4, R95, R96
169 8
338
LS47
$5
256 10
640
LS48
8 3
6
S6
4
8
SR36
k=5
5
10
R97
6
12
S7, SR37, SR38
8 5
8
R133, R134
8
8
16
R98, R99, SR38
10
16
R135, R136
9
18
S8, R100, R101
9
5
9
R137, LS49
10
20
9
4
R102, R103, SR40
9 R104, LS26
10
18
R138, LS50
10
3
6
T44
8
18
10
2
4
10
6
15
8
20
10
25
147
12
3
4
12
5
15
6
18
8
9
10
30
34
13
8
26
14
4
6
21
8
15 4
8
16
2
3
4
6
7
8
9
10
782
17 8
18
8
20
9
10
223
10
322
10
60
25 8
50
24 7
55
9 54
26 8
27 8
S17
42 R125
R126
R127
LS45
52 R128
54 R129
BROKER-24-722-2848-22. 8***4.4*ISANJ
R105, LS27
4
8
SR52
T28
5
10
R139
S9, T29, T33
6
12
SR53, T45, T46
T30
7
14
R140
S10, R106, T31, T34, T36
8
16
SR54
R107, R108, T32, T35, T37
9
18
T47
SR41
10
20
R141, R142, SR55
R109
121
5
12
R143, R144, R145
S11
10
24
R146, R147, R148
SR42
15
2
6
T48
R110
4
12
T49
SR43
6
18
SR56, T50
S12, R111
8
24
T51
C21
9
27
SR57
14
R112
10
30
R149, R150, T52
S13
16
5
16
M20
R113
10
32
M21
15
R114
30
R115, R116, R117, T38
LS28
782
17 10
34 M22
18
10
36 R151
20
4
16
SR58
12
LS29, LS36, M16
8
32 SR59
16
SR44, LS30
10
40
R152
R118, LS31, LS32, LS40, M17
S14, R119, LS37, LS41
32
R120, SR45, LS34, LS38, LS42
36
R121, R122, LS33, LS39, LS43, LS44,
22 3
21
10
42
T53
24
5
24
R153
10
48
R154
25
2
10
LS51
M18
3
15
LS52
40
R123, LS35
4
20
LS53, LS54, LS61
34
C22
5
25
SR60
36
$15
6
30
LS55, LS57
25
SR46
7
35
R155
45
S16, R124
8
40
R156, LS56, LS59, LS62, LS64
50
SR47
9
45
R157, LS58, LS65
10
50
R158, SR61, LS60, LS63, LS66
35
7
49
SR62
10
70
R159
36
5
36
LS68
10
72
LS67, LS69
39
10
78
R160
75
\n--- PAGE 00000088 ---\nTABLE 0.- Auxiliary table for identifying designs of potential interest according to the magnitudes of parameters k and v—Continued
v
r b
Ref. No.
V
r b
Ref. No.
k=5, continued
40 8
44
45
890367
9 $4
64
SR63
30 5
72
R161
7
10
88
R162
9 45
27
PG4
10
54
M23
63
T54, PG5
33333
10
36 2
9
81
SR64, M24
3
10
90
R163
4
8 བྲཧྨ╗
10
132
T55
6
85
5
85
PG6
336
8
10
170
M25
9
121
10
242
LS70
10
231 10
462
T56
165
9
297
PG6A
323
38 9
42
7
441 10 882
LS71
10
48 8
k=6
49 6
54
9
8 3
4
S18
156
6
156
244832-***$85908F TH
SR75
35 S46
S47
SR76
55 S48
12 LS74
18
LS75
LS76
36
LS77, LS78
LS80
LS79
60
LS81
57
S49
SR77
70 $50
64
SR78
LS82
81
SR79
PG8
6
8
S19
9
9246
12
S20, R164
k=7
3
S21
6
S22, LS72
9 S23, SR65
10
8
12
S24, LS73
12
10
15
S25, R165
13
10
3
5
T57
14
77774
90234
10
13
4
6
10
S26, R166, T58, T60
6
9
15
T59
7
122
P023824;
9
R172
T71
12
R173, R174, R175, R176
C24
SR80
12
SR81
14
R177
12
3
6
S27
8
16
SR82
4
8
SR66
10
20
SR83
5
10
S28
6
12
S29, SR67, SR68
8
16
SR69
20
9
18
S30, R167
21
10
20
S31, SR70, SR71
34
13
6
13
C23
28
K822
28
16
7
16
LS83, M28
18
7
18
R178
7692
20
R179, R180
18
SR84
27
SR85
8
T72
14
3
7 S32
4
16
T73
6
14 S33
6
24
T74
9
21
S34
7
28
T77
15
4
10
S35, T62
8
32
SR86, T75
6
15
R168, T61
10
40
R181, T76
8
20
S36, T64
10
25
T63
18
4
12
S37
2333
29
7
29
C25
7
33
R182
35 3
15
PG9
5
15
S38
6
30
M29
6
18
SR72
9
45
M30
8
24
S39, R169
9
27
SR73
995
48
7
48
R183
49
2
14
LS84
10
30 S40
3
21
LS85
220
9
30 S41
4
28
LS86, LS89
21
2
7 T65
5
35
LS87
4
14 T66
6
42
LS88, LS90, LS93
6
21
S42, T67
8
10
24
26
27
28
783696∞6
26
S44, M26
39
M27
27
R170
36
$45
28
R171
28 T68
35 T69, T70
28 S43
10
32
SR74
13 PG7
789085ag
49
SR87
56
LS91, LS95
63
R184, LS94
70
R185, LS92, LS96, LS97
56
533
64 SR88
63
45
PG10
81 SR89
10
90 M31
76
\n--- PAGE 00000089 ---\nTABLE 0.-Auxiliary table for identifying designs of potential interest according to the magnitudes of parameters k and v— - Continued
v
r
b
k=8
Ref. No.
ν
r
b
i.ef. No.
k=9
10
10
14
16
14
16
782
17
18
20
1225
24
22 222
25
26
28
29
32
36
40
$99 $ 33
48
50
56
63
64
1223
72
4824680TBSDT∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞STRUTOROKORT-7-82345678909
10
SOB692574
122
10
S51
$52
3 S53
12 3
6
9
12
S54
15 6
10
4820
S82
S83
S84, R193
S85, T83
$55, SR90
9
15
R194, T84
12
S56, R186
15
S57, S58
$59
178
16
9
16
R195, LS116, M34
17
9
17
C28
18
5
10
$86
14
S60, R187
6
12
SR99
6
S61
8
16
SR100
10
M31A
9
18
R196, R197
12
S62, SR91, LS98
10
20
S87, SR101
14
S63
121
21
3
7
S88
16
SR92
6
14
S89
18
S64, LS99, LS100, M32
9
21
S90
10
20
SR93, M32A
17
C26
18
S65
10
S66
27
2322
24
9
24
R198
25 9
25
LS117
26
9
26
R199
4
12
S91
15
S67
8
24
S92
20 $68
9
27
SR102
21
R188
15
S69
24 R189
27
SR94
10
30
$70
25
LS101
229 84
28
9
28
R200
30 9
30
S93
36
7
28
T85
8
32
SR103
39
6
26
S94
45
2
10
T86
13
S71
26 S72
21 S73
4
20
T87
6
30
T88
7
35
S95
29
C27
8
40
T89
20
S74
9
45
T91
28
S75
10
50
T90
32
SR95
10
40
S76
5555
49
9
49
LS118
57
3
19
PG12
9
T78
6
38
M35
18
T79
9
57
S96, M36
27
T80
63
4
28
PG13
36
S77, T81
8
56
M37
10
45 T82
10
70
S97
45
S78
44 10 55
$79
48
R190
25
PG11
2288
72
64
SR104
78
9
78
R201
80 9
80
R202
81
2
18
LS119
50
S80, M33
3
27
LS120
49 SR96
4
36
LS121, LS126
63 S81
5
45
LS122
63 R191
6
54
LS123, LS127, LS130
16
LS102
7
63
LS124
24 LS103
8
72
LS125, LS128, LS132
32
LS104, LS108
40
LS105
9
81
SR105, LS131
10
90
LS129, LS133
48 LS106, LS109, LS112
100
9 100
LS134
56
LS107
64
SR97, LS110, LS114
72
LS113
10
80 R192, LS111, LS115
k=10
81
SR98
12
5
10
34
13 10
14
10
297 5 165
10 330 M37A
PG13A
6234
S98
S99, R203
C29
R204, R205
77
\n--- PAGE 00000090 ---\nTABLE 0.-Auxiliary table for identifying designs of potential interest according to the magnitudes of parameters k and v-Continued
rb
k = 10, continued
15
Ref. No.
V
r
b
10
888
18
10
20
10
22
21
10
22
10
3 223
25
26
10
27
10
30
10
2339
10
35
36 10
40
2468083borggrotagoragobot
3692
$100
42
S101, T92
S102
45
15
S103, T93
S104
50
18
S105, R206
55
6
S106
12
S107, SR106
16
SR107
9
18
S108, S109
20
SR108
10
70
21
T94, T95
5
11
S110
22
S111
10
S112
20
S113, LS135
26
M38
27
R207, M39
100
88 35
90
5
15
S114
9
27
SR109
30
S115
32
R208
100
21
S116
36
LS136
2 49
5086924 Doombonga2m+boog
21
S118
10
42
S119
36
S120
30 S121
45 S122
11 T96
22 T97
6
33 T98
8
44
T99
10
55
S123, T100
3
21
PG14
6
42
M40
9
63
M41
10
75
R209
5
41
PG15
10
82
S124, M42
9
81
SR110
20
LS137
3
30
LS138
4
40
LS139, LS140
6
60
LS141, LS143
8
80
LS142, LS145
9
90
LS144
10 100
LS146
7
28
S117
Ref. No.
78
\n--- PAGE 00000091 ---\nTable I. Glossary and Notation
a. General
balanced incomplete block design- An arrangement of v treatments in b blocks, each of size k, such that (1) no treatment occurs
more than once in any block, (2) each treatment occurs in r blocks, and (3) such that every pair of treatments occurs in exactly
A blocks. Such a design may be denoted by BIBD, by BIB design, by D(1) or by its parameters expressed as an ordered pentuple
(v, b, r, k, λ). For BIB designs it is necessary (but not sufficient) that vr= = bk, λ(v − 1) = r(k − 1), k < v, d < r < b, v ≤ b (or
rk).
-
BIBD (v, b, r, k, λ) – A balanced incomplete block design whose parameters are v, b, r, k, λ. When the design is symmetric (v=b)
then the notation is abbreviated to "BIBD (v, k, λ)."
v-the number of treatments in a design
b-the number of blocks in a design
r-the number of replications; the number of blocks in which each treatment appears
k-the number of treatments contained in a block
A-in a balanced incomplete block design A is the number of blocks in which a pair of treatments occurs.
D(m), m ≥ 2, and integral - An abbreviation for "a partially balanced incomplete block design with m associate classes." Example:
"Dual: D(3)" means that the dual of the design being enumerated is a partially balanced design with three associate classes,
but that identification details are omitted.
BCS (1954)- A much-used abbreviation for reference to the original publication.
R. C. Bose, W. H. Clatworthy and S. S. Shrikhande, Tables of Partially Balanced Designs with Two Associate Classes, North
Carolina Agricultural Experiment Station, Technical Bulletin, No. 107, 1954.
plan or solution - An arrangement of treatments in blocks according to the specifications provided by the parameters is called a
plan or a solution. Sometimes only one combinationally distinct (unique) solution is possible for a set of parameters; for other
sets of parameters it may be possible to construct more than one combinationally distinct (nonunique) plan.
the true n-plicate (for n=2, duplicate) solution for the BIB design (v, bn, rn, k, nλ) — A description of a particular solution (or plan)
for BIB design with the recorded parameters. To construct it one would construct a plan for the BIB design with parameters
( v, b, r, k, λ), and then repeat this plan n times (n=2, 3, . . .) to obtain the desired plan for the referenced design.
b. Uniqueness and Nonuniqueness
isomorphic - Two designs are said to be isomorphic if by a 1-1 transformation of the treatments of the plan of one of the designs,
its blocks can be brought into coincidence with the blocks of the other, the order of treatments within blocks being of no con-
sequence.
Clearly, for two partially balanced designs with two associate classes to be isomorphic it is necessary that they have the same
sets of parameters, and the transformation of treatments must provide identical association schemes for the designs.
nonisomorphic-Two designs which have the same set of parameters are nonisomorphic (nonunique, distinct, combinationally
distinct) if they are not isomorphic.
unique- A design is said to be unique if all possible solutions or plans for that design can be put into isomorphism with any one
of them.
nonunique-See nonisomorphic.
c. Resolvability
resolvable - A plan or solution for a design is said to be resolvable if its blocks can be divided into subsets each of which contains
every treatment exactly once. Clearly, for resolvable designs it is necessary that b/r=v/k an integer.
a-resolvable (a= 1, 2, . . . or c <r) – A design whose blocks can be divided into subsets such that each subset contains every
treatment precisely a times where a is an integer less than r, is called an a-resolvable design or is said to have an a-resolvable
plan (or solution). Clearly, r/a must be an integer. A 1-resolvable design is a resolvable design.
79
\n--- PAGE 00000092 ---\nnonresolvable-A design that is not resolvable is said to be nonresolvable (i.e., it is not one-resolvable ). However, a nonresolvahe
design may be a-resolvable where 2 < a <r.
affine resolvable design – A resolvable design for which every block intersects all the blocks outside its own replication in a constant
number of treatments is called affine resolvable. For such designs it is necessary that k²/v be integral.
d. Complementary designs
complementary design-The complement of a design D is a design D* such that D* has the same number of treatments v and the
same number of blocks b as the parent design D, and whose jth block consists of precisely those treatments which do not
occur in the jth block (j = 1, 2, . . ., b) of the parent design D.
-
tabular entry for complementary designs, “Design AB.xyz” – Whenever the complementary design of a particular listed design
is identified as Design AB.xyz it is meant that the result of the complementation operation can be placed into isomorphism with
the design identified as Design AB.xyz.
a degenerate design - An expression used to partially describe the complement of a particular recorded design (plan) when each
treatment appears only r=1 time in the complementary design. Obviously this degenerate complementary design is unique
(up to an isomorphism) so that its complement (the parent design) has a unique solution (up to an isomorphism).
connected design — A design is a connected design if every block and every treatment of the design are connected to every other block
and treatment. Two treatments, two blocks or a block and a treatment are said to be connected if it is possible to pass from
one to the other by means of a chain consisting alternately of blocks and treatments such that any two consecutive members
of the chain (i.e., a treatment and a block) are such that the treatment occurs in the block.
disconnected design - A design is said to be disconnected if it breaks up into connected parts such that a block or a treatment of
one part is unconnected with a block or a treatment of another part.
NL, r=c- An expression used to partially describe the complement of a particular design. It means that the complementary design
is not listed in the present enumeration but that it is a design of the same type and it has r=c replications.
NL, k=c-An expression used to partially describe the complement of a particular listed design. It means that the complementary
design is not listed in the enumeration of the present publication but that it is a design of the same type whose block size is
k = c.
self complementary design- A design D is said to be self complementary if its complementary design D* has precisely the same
parameters as the parent design D. The designs D and D* may or may not be isomorphic. For a design to be self complementary,
it is clearly necessary that v=2k (b=2r).
SC-self complementary
truly self complementary-If a design D is self complementary (SC) and if D and its complementary design are also isomorphic, we
say design D is truly self complementary (TSC). A TSC design is always a SC design but a SC design may not be a TSC design.
TSC-truly self complementary.
e. Dual designs
dual design-The dual (or inverse) of a design D is a design D' whose treatments are the blocks of design D and whose blocks are
the treatments of design D. If design D has parameters (v, b, r, k, . . .) then its dual D' has parameters (v', b', r', k', . . .)
= (b, v, k, i r, .). If N = (nij) is the v× b incidence matrix of the design D then the incidence matrix of design D' is the b×v
matrix N', where N' is the transpose of N.
.
-
tabular entry for dual designs, “Design AB.xyz” – Whenever the dual design of a particular solution (or plan) is identified as Design
AB.xyz, it is meant that the inversion produces a design which can be set into an isomorphism with the recorded solution for
Design AB.xyz. Since the dual (or inverse design) depends upon the order in which the blocks are arranged prior to inversion,
the dual design can assume many different appearances, all of which can be placed into isomorphism with any one of the
inversions.
irregular - A dual of the design D is said to be irregular when it is not a D(1) or a partially balanced incomplete design of m associate
classes (denoted by D(m)) where m ≥ 2. Clearly, if the design D possesses two or more distinct types of block structure, its
dual will be irregular.
.
..
not a D(x), x= 1, 2,
t, t an integer - It may be quite difficult to specifically identify the type of design that the dual design
actually is. In the difficult cases it may be easy to specify some design types that the dual is not. “Not a D(1) means that the dual
design is not a balanced incomplete block design, and "not a D(x), x=2, . . t" means that the dual design is not a partially
balanced design with x associate classes (x = 2, or 3, . . ., or t).
self dual- A design D is said to be self dual if its dual design D' has the same parameters as design D. Clearly, for a design to be
self dual it is necessary that v=b and r=k. It is not necessary that the dual D' of a design D be such that D is isomorphic to D'.
80
\n--- PAGE 00000093 ---\nSD-self dual
f.
-
truly self dual – A design D which is self dual and whose dual D' is isomorphic to D is a truly self dual (TSD) design. A TSD design
is always a SD design, but a SD design may not be a TSD design.
TSD-truly self dual.
truly self-dual, Hoffman (1963), and Clatworthy (1971a) - By application of a theorem of Hoffman, published in 1963, it may be
shown that the design being referenced has as its dual a design with the same parameters (i.e., it is self dual); by the work of
Clatworthy it is established that the design is truly self dual.
a D(c), Clatworthy (1956) – A reference to the dual of the particular recorded design. The dual design is a partially balanced design
with c associate classes, c being an integer> 3. This result is known as a consequence of a theorem by Clatworthy published in
1956.
Association schemes
association scheme-For partially balanced designs with two associate classes, the association scheme is an array of the treat-
ment symbols which provides concise and complete information on the first and second associates of any treatment. For
convenience and economy most of the designs in this publication have had their treatment symbols labeled so as to put their
association schemes into standardized forms and these are specified in Table II.
Groups: (x, y)—The particular design construction having this recorded entry is a design based on a group divisible association
scheme with n = y treatments in each of m = x distinct groups. The symbol (m, n) refers to a particular standardized associa-
tion scheme recorded in Table II.
T(n), n=5, 6, 7, -A symbol used to identify a standardized association scheme of the triangular type with parameter n.
The standardized triangular association schemes denoted by T(n) are the appropriate ones for the associated plans and
they are recorded in Table II.
Li(n)-A symbol used to denote the standardized form of the Latin square type of association scheme with parameter n and
i(≥2) constraints. The various Latin square types of association schemes in standardized forms and denoted by L¡(n) are
recorded in Table II. When in or n + 1 the association scheme is of the group divisible type.
L* (4)—A symbol used to identify a Latin square type association scheme with i = 3 constraints and parameter n = 4 which is
distinct from the one denoted by L3 (4).
Association scheme: a pseudo Latin square type-An association scheme whose parameters are those of the Latin square type
but whose treatment relations are not describable by a Latin square type of association scheme.
NLÎ(y), y=2, 3,
Mesner (1967).
•
.
or 10-A symbol used to denote the negative Latin square type of association scheme as developed by
C(x), where x = 5, 13, 17, 29, or 37-This symbol C(x) identifies the particular association scheme of cyclic type appropriate to
the particular design being enumerated. The cyclic association schemes denoted by C(x) are provided in Table II.
C(13: 1, 3, 4, 9, 10, 12); nonstandard – A specification of a particular association scheme of cyclic type. To identify the six first
associates of the treatment labeled i, add i to each of the numbers 1, 3, 4, 9, 10, 12, reducing the results modulo 13.
Association Scheme; not identified-The association scheme is of the general type indicated by the enumeration, but the particular
configuration of treatments in the association scheme has not been identified.
Association Scheme: no information given-For designs of the class D(2) based on partial geometries (i.e., designs with reference
numbers PGxy) no association scheme is needed as the blocks themselves serve as an association scheme since A₁ = 0,
A₂ = 1. The same situation holds for designs of the Miscellaneous classification where no information is recorded.
g. Plans
Plan: Repeat the plan of AB.xyz c times-The particular plan being enumerated may be constructed by repeating the plan of
Design AB.xyz c times. "Duplicate AB.xyz” means to repeat the blocks of Design AB.xyz twice.
Invert Design AB.xyz—To invert a design is to dualize it, i.e., to interchange the roles of treatments and blocks.
h.
Literature references
81
\n--- PAGE 00000094 ---\nlisted references in brackets-Whenever listed references are contained in brackets, [], in Tables VI, VIII, X, . it is intended
to convey the assertion that the particular plan, solution or construction of the author referred to is isomorphic with the con-
struction provided by the author listed immediately to the left of the brackets. For example, the reference "Bose and Nair
(1939) [Clatworthy (1967), John (1966)], Freeman (1957)" would mean that the solutions published by Clatworthy (1967) and
John (1966) can be put into isomorphism with the solution published by Bose and Nair (1939) but that the solution of Freeman
(1957) is possibly distinct.
Design Sl.xy-An identifying symbol for designs of the "simple" design classification enumerated in the publication by Bose,
Clatworthy and Shrikhande (1954).
82
\n--- PAGE 00000095 ---\nTABLE II.-Association schemes for catalogued designs
A. GROUP DIVISIBLE ASSOCIATION SCHEMES (m, n)
(2,2)
1 3
2
4
DESIGN R1-17
DESIGN SR1-5
(2,3)
1 3 5
2 4 6
DESIGNS SR6-8, 35
DESIGNS R20, 24, 25, 43, 45, 47, 49, 52, 53, 94, 95
(2,4)
1 3 5
7
2
4
6
8
DESIGNS SR9, 10, 38
DESIGNS R32, 58, 98, 100, 102, 133, 135, 164
(2,5)
1
3 5
7
9
8 10
2 4 6
DESIGNS SR11, 12
DESIGNS R107, 141, 166
(2,6)
1
3 5 7
9
2 4 6 8
100
10 12
H2
11
DESIGNS SR13, 71
DESIGNS R74, 173
(2,7)
1
3
5
2
4 6
(3,2)
1
4
2
5
3
6
DESIGN S1-5
DESIGNS SR18-22
DESIGNS R18, 19, 21-23, 26, 27, 28, 42, 44, 46, 48, 50, 51, 96
(3,3)
1
2
45
7
8
3 6 9
DESIGNS S21-25
DESIGNS SR23-25, 65
DESIGNS R34, 35, 59-68, 104, 105, 137, 138, 165, 172
(3,4)
1
2
3
456
789
10
11
12
DESIGNS S53-57
DESIGNS SR26, 27, 68
DESIGNS R38, 72, 76, 111, 143, 146, 167, 174, 193
(3,5)
123
3 6
456
789
11
9
12
012
10 13
14
15
DESIGNS S100-104
DESIGNS SR28, 29
DESIGNS R41, 83, 117, 168, 194
11
13
34
12
96
78
10 12 14
(3,6)
1
2
3
789
456
DESIGN SR30
DESIGN R178
9 11 13 15
10 12
31
34
14 16
DESIGN SR14
DESIGNS R187, 204
(2,8)
1 3 5
2 4 6
DESIGN SR15
DESIGN R195
(2,9)
3
5
2 4 6
DESIGN SR16
DESIGN R206
(2,10)
78
78
1 3
5
6
2 4
DESIGN SR17
78
10
11
343
12
13 16
14
12 15 18
878
17
(3,7)
1
2
3
456
DESIGN SR31
DESIGN R188
789
10 13 16 19
11
12
343
14
978
17
20
2226
12 15 18 21
(3,8)
9
11
10 12 14 16 18
18
S5
34
13 15 17
1
2
3
9 11 13 15 17 19
78
1316
34
10 12 14
330
18 20
789
456
10 13 16 19
678
345
11 14
12
2225
17
20
12 15 18 21
DESIGN SR32
DESIGNS R127, 198
222
(3,9)
1 4 7 10 13 16 19
2
5 8 11 14
3
343
17
9 12 15 18 21
678
2226
20
DESIGN SR33
DESIGN R207
222
26
2275
83
\n--- PAGE 00000096 ---\nTABLE II.-Association schemes for catalogued designs-Continued
A. GROUP DIVISIBLE ASSOCIATION SCHEMES
(m, n) - Continued
(3,10)
123
2
456
DESIGN SR34
(3,11)
10
H2
789
11
12
345
16
17
18
678
26
3225
222
19
20
23
2226
222280
29
21 24 27 30
789
456
123
DESIGN R182
14
345
10
13
11
12
16
17
678
2226
19
20
222
23
26
3225
29
82280
31
32
223
12 15 18 21 24 27 30 33
(4,2)
2
123
4
5678
DESIGNS S6-8, 18-20
DESIGNS SR36, 37, 39, 40
DESIGNS R29-31, 33, 54-57, 97, 99, 101, 103, 134, 136
(4,3)
9
2012
1
5678
234
4 8
11
DESIGNS S27, 29, 30, 82-84
DESIGNS SR41-43, 90
DESIGNS R39, 75, 78, 145, 148, 176, 203
(4,4)
1
5 9
13
2
6
10 14
3
7 11 15
4 8 12 16
DESIGNS S61-62, 64
DESIGNS SR44, 45
DESIGNS R86, 87, 118-123
(4,5)
(4,7)
1 5 9 13 17 21 25
2
3
6 10 14 18
17
7892
3456
26
2222
2222
11 15 19 23 27
4 8 12 16 20 24 28
DESIGN SR48
DESIGNS R181, 200
(4,8)
1
2
3
13 17 21 25 29
14 18
78°2
3456
9012
5678
26 30
2232
3272
2222
11 15 19 23
4 8 12 16 20 24 28
DESIGN SR49
DESIGN R208
(4,9)
31
13 17 21 25 29 33
14 18
26 30 34
335
2232
2222
2222
78°2
11 15 19 23 27 31 35
16 20 24 28
36
1
2
3
4
3456
9012
5678
DESIGN SR50
(4,10)
1
2
3
4
7812
3456
9012
5678
13
14
11 15 19 23
21 25 29
2222
26 30
16 20 24 28 32 36 40
339
3433
2232
3272
37
38
31 35 39
DESIGN SR51
(5,2)
1
67890
123
4
5 10
DESIGNS S9, 10, 26, 51, 52
DESIGNS SR52-55
DESIGNS R36, 37, 69, 106, 108, 139, 140, 142
(5,3)
1 5 9 13 17
2 6 10 14 18
3 7 11 15
4 8 12 16 20
DESIGNS S106-108
DESIGNS SR46, 47
DESIGNS R124, 179
7882
1
6 11
19
2
7 12
3
8 13
(4,6)
3456
13
14
11 15
16
9012
5678
12
3
4
DESIGNS R92, 189
4 9 14
5 10 15
DESIGNS S35, 36, 85
DESIGNS SR56, 57
DESIGNS R81, 82, 84, 85, 114-116, 149, 150
སྦྱ ཙ ཚ བ
17
19
20
24
2222
21
(5,4)
23
1
2
3
4
9
5 10
12345
678
17
18
C7BD2
16
19
20
DESIGNS S66, 68
DESIGNS SR58, 59
DESIGN R152
84
\n--- PAGE 00000097 ---\nTABLE II.-Association schemes for catalogued designs-Continued
A. GROUP DIVISIBLE ASSOCIATION SCHEMES
(m, n) - Continued
(5,5)
1
2
3
11
67822
12345
67820
16
17
22222
21
4 9
5 10
DESIGNS S112, 113
DESIGNS SR60, 61
DESIGNS R155-158
(5,7)
18
23
19 24
20 25
(6,4)
1
2
3
13 19
14 20
3456
7890
15 21
4 10 16
5
222228
11 17 23
6 12 18 24
DESIGNS S69, 70
DESIGN SR74
DESIGNS R93, 153, 154
1
2
3
4
5
10
12345
67899
(6,5)
11 16
17
18
19
22222
21 26 31
27
23
24 29
20 25 30 35
22343
22228
1
DESIGN SR62
DESIGN R159
6
345678
789012
2345
13 19 25
14 20 26
15 21 27
16
5 11 17 23 29
18
24 30
222222
222222
28
DESIGNS S114, 115
DESIGNS SR75, 76
(5,8)
1 6 11
2 7
3
8
4
9
5
10
K7BD2
12345
16
17
18
19 24
20 25 30
22228
22323
21 26 31
27
29
22343
35
33333
36
(6,7)
37
38
39
40
DESIGN SR63
345678
780012
123456
13 19 25
123438
227228
222222
37
14 20 26
15 21
16
17 23 29 35 41
18 24 30 36 42
38
39
40
(5,9)
DESIGN SR77
1
6 11
16 21 26 31 36 41
2
7
12 17 22
27 32 37 42
3
8 13 18 23 28
33 38 43
(6,8)
4 9 14 19
5 10 15 20
24 29
25
30
34 39 44
35 40
1
45
DESIGN SR64
3 9 15 21
4 10 16
345678
7 13 19 25
2 8 14 20 26
227228
222222
223438
31
(6,2)
1
2
3
4
10
5
789812
6 12
DESIGNS S11, 12, 28, 31, 58, 98, 99
DESIGNS SR66, 67, 69, 70
DESIGNS R40, 70, 71, 73, 77, 109, 110, 144, 147, 175, 186
(6,3)
37
5 11 17 23 29 35 41
6
12 18 24 30
36
42
ឆ - 6 ៖ ឌ ។
38
39
40
744959
43
46
48
DESIGN SR78
(6,9)
1
2
3
4
345678
789012
13 19 25
18 24 30 36 42 48 54
DESIGN SR79
123438
222222
222222
38
RISC8E
39
*$4959
37 43 49
44 50
40 46 52
***
51
14 20 26
15 21 27
16
28
5 11 17 23 29 35 41 47 53
6
789812
12345V
13
14
15
10 16
6 12
17
18
DESIGNS S38, 40, 86, 87
DESIGNS SR72, 73
DESIGNS R169, 196
(7,2)
8
2
9
3
10
4
11
5 12
6 13
7 14
DESIGNS S13, 32-34, 59, 60
DESIGNS SR80-83
DESIGNS R79, 80, 112, 113, 177, 208
85
\n--- PAGE 00000098 ---\nTABLE II. - Association schemes for catalogued designs—Continued
A. GROUP DIVISIBLE ASSOCIATION SCHEMES
(m, n) - Continued
(7,3)
2
89
8
15
16
3
10
17
4 11
18
5
12
19
6
13
20
7 14
21
DESIGNS S42, 88-90
DESIGNS SR84, 85
DESIGN R91
(7,4)
(7,9)
123-
4
5
6
7
15
29 36
50 57
16 23 30 37 44 51 58
10 17 24
BKFBP22
8961234
18
25
2222222
12 19 26
DESIGN SR89
(8,2)
1 9
10
2852313
38
39
RISCE
234959;
46
XXX
52 59
53
60
ទទទខ ខខ
40 47 54 61
20 27 34 41 48 55 62
21 28
42
56 63
1
2
3
4
11
5
6
7
8901234
SHTEP22
15
16
17
18
19
20
21 28
2222222
23
24
25
26
27
DESIGN S73
DESIGN SR86
DESIGNS R130, 131, 171
(7,5)
1
8
15
2 9 16 23 30
3 10 17
4 11 18
5 12 19 26
6 13 20 27 34
7 14 21 28
2222222
24
25
29
28-2313
35
DESIGN S116
23456
11
12
13
6 14
7 15
8 16
DESIGNS S14, 63
DESIGNS SR91-93
(8,3)
9
17
2
10
18
3
11 19
45
4
12 20
5 13 21
6
14 22
7 15 23
8 16 24
DESIGN S43
DESIGN SR94
DESIGNS R125, 126
(7,7)
1
8 15
2 9 16
3 10 17 24 31
4
11
18
6 13 20 27 34 41
7 14 21 28
DESIGN SR87
DESIGNS R184, 185
(7,8)
2222222
29
23
25
32
5 12 19 26 33 40 47
35
* www c
36 43
30 37 44
38
39
42 49
21485gg
(8,4)
1
9 17 25
2 10 18 26
46
3 11 19
4
12 20
5
13 21 29
6 14
7 15 23 31
8
16 24
2272282
MRR22222
30
32
DESIGN S75
DESIGN SR95
1
2
I34567
11
BHTBP22
89O1234
15
10 17 24
18
19 26
20
6
DESIGN SR88
21 28 35 42
2222222
25
27 34
28*33
29
16 23 30 37 44 51
31
Ret www 0
36
38
39
2$4959;
43
46
40 47 54
41 48 55
8538
50
(8,5)
52
1
9 17
53
3 11 19
4 12
56
5678
6 14
15 23
16
7222222
2 10 18 26 34
20
13 21 29 37
227228
25 33
35
36
30 38
39
DESIGN S117
24 32 40
86
\n--- PAGE 00000099 ---\nTABLE II. - Association schemes for catalogued designs- Continued
A. GROUP DIVISIBLE ASSOCIATION SCHEMES
(m, n) - Continued
3 11 19
(8,6)
12345
1 9
2 10
TA22222
17
18
4 12
20
33 41
26 34 42
35 43
36
3435%
2272285
5 13 21 29
6 14
7 15
23
32
44
=**$499
37 45
38 46
39 47
40 48
8 16 24
DESIGN R183
(8,7)
(9,3)
1234567
10 19
11 20
12 21
13
222222227
14 23
15 24
16 25
8 17 26
9 18
DESIGNS S45, 91, 92
DESIGN SR102
DESIGNS R129, 170
(9,4)
10 19 28
26
34325;%
ម ន ឆ ន ន ទ គ គ
MRR22222
41
49
42
36
37
38
39
32 40
&&&&
43
44
45
46
47
48
XXXX35
50
51
52
53
54
123
11
20
12
55
4 13
56
5
14 23
6 15 24 33
7 16 25 34
8 17
222-*****
222222227
29
21 30
31
32
26 35
36
3
12345.
96
10
17
18
11 19
4 12 20
5 13 21
6
14
7 15 23
8 16 24
DESIGN SR96
(8,8)
1
90
2345
2 10
18
6 14
234
11 19
4 12 20
5 13
21
7
15
23
22722872
MRR22222
17 25
33
36
30
31
CHEEKS**
41 49
26 34 42 50
35 43 51
44
37
45 53
38 46 54
39 47 55 63
SЯXX✰
52
ធ ទ ទ ន វ ខ ខ ៩
57
58
59
60
62
64
8 16 24 32 40 48 56
DESIGN SR97
DESIGN R192
(8,9)
123
33253
22722872
7222222
9 17 25 33 41
4 12 20
35 43 51 59
36 44 52 60 68
5 13 21 29 37 45 53
6 14
30
38 46 54 62 70
7 15 23 31 39 47
8 16 24 32 40 48
DESIGN SR98
55 63 71
56
64 72
10 18 26 34 42 50 58 66
11 19
SAXXIS
49
ភ ទ ទ ន ៩ ខ ខ 3
57 65
38588222
67
(9,2)
1
10
2
11
3 12
4 13
5 14
6 15
7 16
8 17
9 18
DESIGNS S15, 37, 39, 65, 105
DESIGNS SR99-101
DESIGNS R88, 89, 151, 197
9 18
DESIGN S77
DESIGN SR103
1234567
(9,5)
10 19
12
13
14
15 24
7 16 25 34
8 17 26 35
9 18 27 36
222222222
11 20 29
21 30
23
228-23*3*
31
**Res888
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
DESIGN S120
DESIGN R163
61 69
(9,7)
123456
10 19
28
46
11 20 29 38 47
12 21 30 39 48 57
13
14
23
222222227
31 40 49
22-****
32
15 24 33
7 16 25 34
***3=27$4
41
50
155999688
51 60
52
8 17 26 35 44 53 62
9 18
36
DESIGN R191
45 54 63
(9,8)
123
10 19
37 46 55 64
11 20 29 38 47 56 65
12 21 30 39 48 57 66
4 13
222222227
23
228-***
$38588272
335998088
31 40 49
67
32
41
50
68
6 15 24
33 42 51
60 69
5 14
**CE
7 16 25 34 43 52 61 70
8 17 26
9 18
DESIGN SR104
35 44 53 62 71
36 45 54 63
87
\n--- PAGE 00000100 ---\nTABLE II.-Association schemes for catalogued designs- Continued
A. GROUP DIVISIBLE ASSOCIATION SCHEMES
(m, n)-Continued
(9,9)
123456789
10 19
11
12
13
14
16
17
9
18 27
222222222
23
2287≈≈132
37
20 29 38
30 39
40
41
15 24 33 42 51 60
36
$4
25 34 43 52 61 70
26 35 44 53 62
45 54
*******
49
50
888588022
38598688
46 55 64 73
47
65 74
48 57 66 75
67
68 77
69
71
72
REKLER 28.
(10,5)
1
11
2 12
3 13 23
21
76
4 14 24 34 44
5
78
15 25
6 16 26 36
79
7 17 27 37 47
80
8
81
DESIGN SR105
18 28
9 19 29 39
10 20
DESIGN S122
123385888
2222222222
41
42
43
30
40
* $ £ £ £ ££*£2
45
46
48
49
50
(10,2)
11
12343KFBD2
1234567890
15
16
17
18
19
20
DESIGNS S16, 41, 67, 109
DESIGNS SR106-108
DESIGNS R90, 180
(10,3)
123456
11 21
12
(10,8)
54 64 74
55 65 75
2
12
3
4 14 24 34
5 15 25 35
6 16 26 36
7 17 27 37
2222222222
32
13 23 33
=224497995
11 21 31 41 51 61 71
52 62 72
46
XXXXX58
43 53 63 73
1881285882
8៩៨៩ ដ៩៨នដ
8 18 28 38 48
9 19 29 39
56 66 76
57 67 77
68 78
59 69 79
10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80
DESIGN R202
11 21 31 41 51 61 71 81
32
52 62 72 82
(10,9)
1
2 12
3
13 23 33
53 63 73 83
13 23
4 14 24 34 44 54 64 74
14 24
5 15 25 35 45
55
65 75 85
15
25
6
16
16 26
7
8
7812
HHHHHH88
84
2222222228
C2****588
2222222222
=23$49ggg
បទ ក ង ទ ទ ទ ទ ន
5838485882
26 36 46
56 66 76 86
27 37 47 57 67 77 87
28 38 48
9 19 29 39
10 20 30 40 50
DESIGN SR110
58 68 78
59 69 79 89
60 70 80 90
7 17 27
8 18
9 19 29
10 20 30
DESIGNS S47, 93
DESIGN SR109
(10,4)
1234567
11 21 31
12 22 32
13 23 33
14 24 34
7 17
8 18
427228
(11,2)
1
12
2
13
3
14
4
15
5 16
6 17
7 18
8 19
9
20
15 25
35
16 26
36
37
38
9 19 29 39
10 20
11
22
30
40
10 21
DESIGN S78
DESIGN R161
DESIGNS S17, 110, 111
888
\n--- PAGE 00000101 ---\nTABLE II.-Association schemes for catalogued designs-Continued
A. GROUP DIVISIBLE ASSOCIATION SCHEMES
(11,3)
1
12
23
13
3
14
4 15
5
16
6
17
7
18
8
19
9
20
10 21 32
33
2222222≈≈≈
24
25
26
27
28
29
11 22
DESIGN S48
(m, n)-Continued
(13,2)
1
14
2 15
3 16
4 17
5 18
6 19
7
LEK7B22222222
20
8 21
9
10 23
11 24
12 25
13 26
DESIGNS S44, 71, 72
DESIGNS R128, 199
(11,4)
1
234567α
10
21
11
234567-222
12
13
14
15 26
16 27
17
18 29
8 19 30
9 20 31
33
22222222223
24
25
wwwww
34
35
(13,3)
36
37
38
28
39
40
41
42
43
44
43456780
9
10
DESIGN S79
DESIGN R162
(11,5)
12 25 38
13 26 39
DESIGN S94
DESIGN R160
E-22222222
1 14 27
2 15 28
3 16
29
17 30
18 31
6 19 32
20
21 34
23 36
11 24 37
222222≈******
33
35
234567
9
10
11
234BK7BP222
12
13 24
14 25
15 26
17
8 19 30
20
21
22222222-23
34
35
36
37
16 27 38
28
39
18 29 40 51
41
31
42
43
33
44
4959955335
46
47
(13,6)
48
50
52
2345678
DESIGN S123
1 14 27 40
66
2 15 28 41 54 67
16 29 42 55 68
4
17 30 43 56
18
31 44 57
19 32 45
20 33 46
8 21 34 47 60
9 22 35 48 61 74
10 23 36 49 62 75
11 24 37 50 63
(12,4)
12 25 38 51 64
13 26 39
**38518083
59
52 65 78
858822≈≈≈ KINⓇ
69
70
71
72
73
76
77
1
13 25 37
23456789
10
14 26 38
15
39
16
17 29
40
41
18 30 42
227228-≈3:32
B4SK72222222
19 31 43
20
21
11 23 35
12
DESIGN R190
44
*$485%
DESIGN R201
(15,2)
1
16
2
17
3 18
4 19
34 46
5 20
47
6 21
36
7 22
8 23
9 24
10
11 26
22222&
25
12 27
13 28
14 29
15 30
DESIGN S46
DESIGN R132
89
\n--- PAGE 00000102 ---\nTABLE II. - Association schemes for catalogued designs-Continued
A. GROUP DIVISIBLE ASSOCIATION SCHEMES
(m, n) - Continued
(15,3)
1
(19,2)
2
3
4 19
6789
16 31
1
20
17 32
2
21
18 33
3
22
34
4
23
5
20 35
5
24
6 21
36
6
25
7
22
37
7
26
8
23
38
8
27
9
24
39
9 28
10
25 40
10 29
11 26 41
11 30
12 27
42
12
31
13 28
43
13
32
14 29
44
14 33
15 30
45
15
34
16 35
DESIGN S95
17 36
18 37
19 38
(15,5)
123
16
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
12345
11
KERE*****~228
17
18
19
20
21
23
24
26
27
30
5231585≈≈87**$4
25 40 55
29 44 59 74
****AM¤¤****8
46 61
DESIGN S49
47
62
48 63
49 64
50
36 51 66
52
53
54
56 71
57
58
60
RIENCE***
(19,3)
65
67
68
69
70
72
73
1234567890:
20
39
21
40
22
41
23 42
24 43
25
26
27
28
29
75
11 30 49
6 ± 2 * $ 28
44
45
46
47
48
12 31 50
DESIGN R209
13 32 51
14 33 52
15 34 53
16 35 54
17 36 55
18 37 56
19 38 57
(16,2)
1
6
9 25
10 26
11 27
12 28
13
MAD222****~*29-2
14 30
17
2 18
3 19
4 20
DESIGN S96
5 21
7 23
(21,2)
8 24
1
234567
15 31
16 32
DESIGNS S74, 76
10
31
11 32
12 33
27
8 29
9 30
2222228
23
24
25
26
13
34
14 35
15 36
16 37
17
38
18
39
19 40
22
20
41
21
42
DESIGNS S50, 118, 119
90
\n--- PAGE 00000103 ---\nTABLE II.-Association schemes for catalogued designs-Continued
A. GROUP DIVISIBLE ASSOCIATION SCHEMES
(m, n)-Continued
(21,3)
1
2222
3 24
43
2 23
44
4
25
5 26
47
6
27
28
8
29
50
9 30 51
10
31
11 32
12
33
13 34
14
35
53
$495GAMNKIM58628
15 36 57
16
17
37
38
18 39
60
19 40 61
20
41
21 42 63
DESIGNS S97
(25,2)
1 26
(28,2)
1
29
2 30
3 31
4
5
28-≈3*32528
6
7
34
8 36
9 37
10
11 39
12 40
13 41
14 42
15 43
16 44
17 45
18 46
CELEBER 7 2 * * * *72
19 47
20
48
21
49
22
50
23
51
24 52
25 53
26 54
55
29
28 56
DESIGN S81
2
27
3
28
4
5 30
6
31
7
32
8
33
9
34
10
35
11
36
12
37
13
38
14
39
15
40
16
41
17 42
18
43
2222223
19
44
20
45
21
46
47
48
24
49
25 50
DESIGNS S80, 121
91
\n--- PAGE 00000104 ---\nTABLE II.-Association schemes for catalogued designs - Continued
A. GROUP DIVISIBLE ASSOCIATION SCHEMES
(41,2)
(m, n)- Continued
T(7)
10. 11
12 13 14 15
4936+02
382-678
27
12
2345
14789E
+123456
6 11
15 18
13 16
16
17
5 6
CHEB22*
18
19 20
10 14 17 19 * 21
21
DESIGNS T7, 8, 20-22, 53, 65-70, 94, 95
T(8)
1
1
*
28
2
8
3
4567
10 15 19
5
11 16 20
6
12
17
678
21
4039-222
3°*°222
9 14
5 6
9 10 11 12 13
* 14 15 16 17 18
19 20 21
7382228*
23 24 25
26
25 27
SE22* 22
26
28
23
24
25
66
67
7 13 18
DESIGNS T23, 39, 40, 72-77
T(9)
2****5*A☎NK*58683888588°F~~~KLEIDID%
1 42
2 43
3 44
4
45
5
46
6
47
7
8
49
9
50
10
11
12
13
54
14
15
16
57
17
18
19
60
20
21
22
64
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35 76
36
37 78
38 79
39 80
40 81
41
DESIGN S124
72
4 11 17 22
1123456
2
1.90
2 3 4
9 10 11
• 16 17
10 16
74
75
8922
5 12 18 23 27
6 13 19 24 28
7 14 20 25 29
8 15 21 26 30
THE2 2222
22
•
52122728
6
31
32
33
302 $3
23 24 25 26
28 29
34
35
742222***
8
13 14 15
19 20 21
30
31 32 33
34 35
•
36
36
•
B.
TRIANGULAR ASSOCIATION SCHEMES, T(n)
T(5)
1
2
3
4
3
6
* 8
89
* 10
4799
10
25
14567
DESIGNS T1-4, 9-13, 28-37, 44-47, 57-60, 71
T(6)
DESIGNS T24, 78-82, 85
T(10)
1123456789
1
10
11 18
12
13
14
21
15
20*22222
10 11
19 25
17 24 30 35
3AB R22222
4 5
6
7
12
13
14
15
18 19 20
21
22 23
25 26
27
28
• 31
32
33
26
31
36
37
27 32 36
• 40 41 42
28 33
37
40
•
16 23 29 34 38 41
43
39
42
44
t.t±❀*~~2∞
9
16
29
34
38
43
45
.AttwwwNE
17
24
30
35
39
44
45
DESIGNS T25, 86-90.
T(11)
*
1
1
2 11
3 12 20
4 13
5 14
29
6
15 23 30
36
7 16 24 31 37
8 17 25
6789
322828-238
2222222227
12
20
*
wwww3.825-
4
13 14
21
54223 7 2 2 $4
29 30
42
46
50
51
43 47 50
9 18 26
39 44 48
53
55
10 19
34 40
45
52
54 55
042191*9599
6
16
23
*
24 25 26 27
32 33 34
36 37 38 39 40
44 45
42
43
41 • 46 47 48 49
** 858
52
53 54
07221178***
9
10
18 19
59245
14
15
•
•
4813-5
6
10 11 12
370-34
20TO12
146789
12345
14
5 9
11 13
DESIGNS T5, 6, 14-19, 38, 48-52, 61-64, 83, 84, 92, 93
DESIGNS T26, 96-100
92
\n--- PAGE 00000105 ---\nTABLE II. - Association schemes for catalogued designs - Continued
B. TRIANGULAR ASSOCIATION SCHEMES, T(n)-Con.
T(12)
C. LATIN SQUARE TYPE OF ASSOCIATION
SCHEMES, Lê(n)
k=2.3.4.5.6.7
1. LATIN SQUARE TYPE OF ASSOCIATION
SCHEMES, L2(n)
•
1
1
•
12
2
12
3
4
567
345
13
14 23
15
16
17
8
18
9 19 28
10
20
11 21
22222222222
3
4
13
14
15
22
23
24
·
31
31
39
•
24
32
39
25
33
40 46
26
34
27
35
42
36 43
29
37
44
30
38
45
SE28959985
6
16
17
25
26
32 33
34
40
41
46 47
41 47 52
48
53
57
49
54
50 55
59
51
56
60
8584.2LCKREL
222.22268
9
18
19
27
28
35
36
42 43
48
49
53
54
57 58 59 60
•
61
61
64
63
65
22258888
10
20
29
37
44
50
55
62
64
66
1288518338*
30
45
L2(3)
56
1
63
4
65
7
66
DESIGNS T27, 55
6
309
258
DESIGNS LS1, 2, 7-15, LS26 SOL. 1, 2, 3, LS27 SOL. 1, 2, 3, LS49 SOL.
1, 2, 3, LS50 SOL. 1, 2, 3, LS72, 73
L2(4)
T(14)
1123456T23
7
9
10
24
24*22228-≈****
LILEKTR2222222
3 4
5
14
15
16
17
26
27
28
15 26
16 27 37
18 29 39
38 47
48
19 30 40 49
8 20 31 41 50
32 42 51
33 43 52
34 44
53
35
45
54
36 46 55 63
85%
· 37 38 39 40
47
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
2082222...
6
18 19
56
64
65
67 73
68
69
70
222222.24885-
8 9 10
20 21
29 30 31 32
41
48 49 50 51
57
64
65 66
71
• 77
66 72 77
78 82
74
79
75
80
76
81
22 INN HIB
58 59 60
72
83
84
85
2233785222868
=23435822*8*88
42 43 44 45 46
54 55
68
90 91
2234428☎
12
75
80 81
87
89
•
221453LLIBR☎*
2004
1
5
9 10 11
12
16
3 4
6 7 8
70
35 36
62 63
69
13 14 15
DESIGNS LS3, 4, 16, 20, 28, LS29 SOL. 1, LS30, LS31 SOL. 1, LS32, 34,
35 LS36 SOL. 1, 2, LS37 SOL. 1, 2, LS39 SOL. 1, 2, 3, LS40, 42, 44,
83, 98, 100, 116
76
L2(5)
85
88
1
2
3
4
90
6
7
8
9
91
11 12
16
21
222
17
382
13
14
18
19
24
50523
10
15
DESIGN T42
DESIGNS LS5, 45, 51, 54, 57, 59, 60-64, 66, 101, 117, 135
T(17)
·
1 2
1
• 17
2 17 •
3∞2
18
3 18 32
•
38$5
L2(6)
15 16
30 31
1
2 3 4 5
44 45
7 8 9 10 11
57 58
13 14 15 16
19
20 21
25 26 27 28 29 30
1224
SHN223
17
021209
6
18
24
15 30
16 31
333
44
45
55555
$4
57
58
136
DESIGN T43
T(22)
•
1
2 22
1
22
322-
22 2
3 23 42
• 42
2220
40 59 77
97
859
2003
21 41 60 78
DESIGN T56
136
31 32 33 34 35 36
DESIGNS LS6, 23, 67, 74, 76, 78, 80, 81, 136
L2(7)
1 2 3 4
2642
20
40 41
59
77
2382
21
60
78
1842214
9
10 11 12
15 16 17 18 19
23 24 25 26
29
30 31 32 33
36 37 38 39 40
43 44 45 46 47 48 49
DESIGNS LS24, 46, 84, 89, 93, 95-97, 118
5235
032714%
6
7
14
21
28
35
42
231
231
L2(8)
1
2 3
9 10 11
17 18 19 20
25 26 27
33 34 35
41 42 43 44
49 50 51 52
57 58 59 60 61 62 63
DESIGNS LS102, 108, 112, 114, 115
1222148
36
53225435
6
13
14 15
21 22
29 30 31
37 38 39
46
74238733
8
48
54 55 56
***SCNL.
16
24
32
40
64
93
\n--- PAGE 00000106 ---\nTABLE II. - Association schemes for catalogued designs - Continued
C. LATIN SQUARE TYPE OF ASSOCIATION
SCHEMES, Lk(n)
k=2.3.4.5.6.7 - Continued
L2(9)
L2(21)
1
2
3
4
10
19
37
55
64
12204555
12
28 29 30 31
38
39
46 47 48
56
57
65
66 67
22 NE.
13
21 22 23
40
49
58
73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80
DESIGNS LS25, 119, 126, 130, 132, 133
LASTE NEC
5
14
32
41
50
59
DE2345882
68 69 70 71 72
72222
8
15 16 17 18
25
26
27
441 BY
A 21 X21 ARRAY WITH THE CELLS LABELED 1,2, ...
ROWS FROM LEFT TO RIGHT, AS FOR THE OTHER ARRAYS OF
THIS TYPE.
33 34 35 36
43
52 53 54
44
60 61 62 63
81
IN TAK
45
DESIGN LS71
2. LATIN SQUARE TYPE L¸(n) ASSOCIATION SCHEMES
L3(4)
1A 2B 3C 4D
5B 6A 7D 8C
L2(10)
1
2
3 4 5 6
11 12
13
14 15 16
21 22
23
24
25
26
31 32 33
34 35
36
41 42 43
44 45
46
51
52
53
54 55
56
61
62
63 64
65
66
71 72 73
81 82 83 84 85
91 92 93 94 95
74
75
76
96
2222322222
8 9
18 19
27
28
29
37
38 39
47 48
49
57 58
97 98
59 60
67 68 69 70
77 78 79 80
86 87 88 89 90
99
100
2253288
20
30
40
9C 10D 11A 12B
13D 14C 15B 16A
DESIGNS LS17 SOL. 1, LS19 SOL. 2, LS29 SOL. 1, LS31 SOL. 1, LS33
SOL. 1, LS41, 43, LS99 SOL. 1
50
L3*(4)
IA 2B 3C 4D
SD 6A 7B 8C
DESIGNS LS137, 140, 143, 145, 146
L2(11)
9C 10D 11A 12B
13B 14C 15D 16A
DESIGNS LS17 SOL. 2, LS18, LS19 SOL. 1, LS21, LS29 SOL. 2, LS31
SOL. 2, LS33 SOL. 2, LS38, LS99 SOL. 2.
ដីទី៩៨១៩ គ ន ផ ម –
45
56
67 68
78
89
100 101
111 112 113
23239537802
3 4
13
14 15
24 25 26
36 37
46
47
48
58
59
69 70
80
81 82
91 92 93 94
102
ពីនិនដ៖៖៖ ឆ5 u
6
17
28
39
50
60
61
72
83
103 104 105 106
114 115 116 117 118
–ទី៖ ន ដ ន ង ៩៩5 ~
8
9 10
19 20 21
=23138782
L3(5)
30
31 32
41 42 43 44
52 53 54 55
63 64 65
66
DESIGN LS70
L2(13)
14223822
2 3 4
5
6
8
15 16 17 18
19
27
28 29 30 31
32
40
41
53 54 55
42 43 44
56
66 67 68 69
70 71 72
79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91
92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 100 101 102 103 104
105 106 107 108 109 110 111 112 113 114 115 116 117
118 119 120 121 122 123 124 125 126 127 128 129 130
131 132 133 134 135 136 137 138 139 140 141 142 143
144 145 146 147 148 149 150 151 152 153 154 155 156
157 158 159 160 161 162 163 164 165 166 167 168 169
DESIGN LS47
EN~
20 21
33
34
45 46 47
9 10 11
22 23 24
35 36 37
48 49 50 51 52
57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65
73 74 75 76
228585
12
13
26
74 75 76 77
85 86 87
96 97 98 99
107 108 109 110
119 120 121
1A 2B 3C 4D SE
6E 7A 8B 9C 10D
11D 12E 13A 14B 15C
16C 17D 18E 19A 20B
21B 22C 23D 24E 25A
DESIGNS LS22, 52, 55, 58, 65
L3(6)
1A 2B 3C 4D SE 6F
7F 8A 9B 10C 11D 12E
13E 14F 15A 16B 17C 18D
19D 20E 21F 22A 23B 24C
25C 26D 27E 28F 29A 30B
31B 32C 33D 34E 35F 36A
38
39
DESIGNS LS68, 69, 75, 77, 79
77
78
L3(7)
1A
2B 3C 4D 5E 6F 7G
8G 9A 10B 11C 12D 13E 14F
15F 16G 17A 18B 19C 20D 21E
22E 23F 24G 25A 26B 27C 28D
29D 30E 31F 32G 33A 34B 35C
36C 37D 38E 39F 40G 41A 42B
43B 44C 45D 46E 47F 48G 49A
L2(16)
A16X 16 ARRAY WITH THE CELLS LABELED 1,2, . . ., 256 BY
ROWS FROM LEFT TO RIGHT, AS FOR THE OTHER ARRAYS OF
THIS TYPE.
DESIGN LS48
DESIGNS LS82, 85, 90, 94
76
94
\n--- PAGE 00000107 ---\nTABLE II. - Association schemes for catalogued designs - Continued
C. LATIN SQUARE TYPE OF ASSOCIATION
SCHEMES, Lk(n) k 23.4.5.6.7—Continued
L3(8)
1A 2B 3C 4D 5E 6F 7G 8H
9B 10A 11D 12C 13F 14E 15H 16G
17C 18D 19A 20B 21G 22H 23E 24F
25D 26C 27B 28A 29H 30G 31F 32E
33E 34F 35G 36H 37A 38B 39C 40D
41F 42E 43H 44G 45B 46A 47D 48C
49G 50H 51E 52F 53C 54D 55A 56B
57H 58G 59F 60E 61D 62C 63B 64A
DESIGNS LS103, 109, 113
L3(9)
1A 2B 3C 4D SE 6F 7G 8H 9J
10B 11C 12A 13E 14F 15D 16H 17J 18G
19C 20A 21B 22F 23D 24E 25J 26G 27H
28D 29E 30F 31G 32H 33J 34A 35B 36C
37E 38F 39D 40H 41J 42G 43B 44C 45A
46F 47D 48E 49J 50G 51H 52C 53A 54B
55G 56H 57J 58A 59B 60C 61D 62E 63F
64H 65J 66G 67B 68C 69A 70E 71F 72D
73J 74G 75H 76C 77A 78B 79F 80D 81E
DESIGNS LS120, 127, 131
L4(7).
TO THE FIRST ASSOCIATES DEFINED BY ASSOCIATION SCHEME
L3(7) ADD FURTHER FIRST ASSOCIATES DEFINED BY SUPER-
POSITION OF the following latiN SQUARE ON THE 7X7
ARRAY OF L2(7).
Ꭰ
G
ABCDEC
Ꭰ
Ꭰ
Ꭰ
DEFCABC
CDEFGAB
BCDEFCA
G
G
G
CABCDEF
FCABCDE
EFCABCD
Ꭰ
Ꭰ
F G
GAB C D E F
DESIGNS LS86, 91
L4(8)
TO THE FIRST ASSOCIATES DEFINED BY ASSOCIATION SCHEME
L3(8) ADD FURTHER FIRST ASSOCIATES DEFINED BY SUPER-
POSITION OF THE FOLLOWING LATIN SQUARE ON THE 8X8
ARRAY OF L2(8).
G
DHCCFBEA
CCDHEALB
BFAEHDGC
AEBFCCHD
G
Α
Ꭰ
G
EAFBCCDH
HDGCBFAE
CCHDAEBE
Ꭰ
FBEADHGG
G
Ꭰ Α
F
Ꭰ
C
Α
Ꭰ
F
L3(10)
1A 2G 3F 4E 5K 6J 7H 8B 9C 10D
11H 12B 13A 14G 15F 16K 17J 18C 19D 20E
21J 22H 23C 24B 25A 26G 27K 28D 29E 30F
31K 32J 33H 34D 35C 36B 37A 38E 39F 40G
41B 42K 43J 44H 45E 46D 47C 48F 49G 50A
51D 52C 53K 54J 55H 56F 57E 58G 59A 60B
61F 62E 63D 64K 65J 66H 67G 68A 69B 70C
71C 72D 73E 74F 75G 76A 77B 78H 79J 80K
81E 82F 83G 84A 85B 86C 87D 88J 89K 90H
91G 92A 93B 94C 95D 96E 97F 98K 99H 100J
DESIGNS LS138, 141, 144
L3 (10): SEE LS134
3. LATIN SQUARE TYPE L(n) ASSOCIATION SCHEMES.
L4(5)
TO THE FIRST ASSOCIATES DEFINED BY ASSOCIATION SCHEME
L3(5) ADD FURTHER FIRST ASSOCIATES DEFINED BY SUPER-
POSITION OF THE FOLLOWING LATIN SQUARE ON THE 5X5
ARRAY OF L2(5).
Ꭰ
DEABC
CDEAB
BCDEA
ABCDE
Ꭰ
EABCD
Α
E A B C D
DESIGNS LS53, 56
DESIGNS LS104, 110
L4(9)
TO THE FIRST ASSOCIATES DEFINED BY ASSOCIATION SCHEME
L3(9) ADD FURTHER FIRST ASSOCIATES DEFINED BY SUPER-
POSITION OF THE FOLLOWING LATIN SQUARE ON THE 9X9
ARRAY OF L2(9).
G
ACDBHECLE
J
J
EBHFCIDAG
DAGEBHFCA
CLFAGDBHE
BHECIFAGD
Ꭰ
J
G
J
В
Ꭰ
F
Н J
J
FCLDAGEBH
CDAHEBLEC
HEBIECCDA
F
J G
LECCDAHEB
Ꭰ
Α
F Ꭰ
F DE J
GHC
A B
DESIGNS LS121, 128
L4(10)
TO THE FIRST ASSOCIATES DEFINED BY ASSOCIATION SCHEME
L3(10) ADD FURTHER FIRST ASSOCIATES DEFINED BY SUPER-
POSITION OF THE FOLLOWING LATIN SQUARE ON THE 10X10
ARRAY OF L2(10). LATIN SQUARE ASSOCIATION SCHEMES
L3(10) AND L4(10) UTILIZE THE PAIR OF ORTHOGONAL 10X10
LATIN SQUARES FOUND ON PAGE 88 OF RYSER (1963).
G
Н J
Ꭰ
G
J
Н J
Ꭰ
CDEFGABHK-
FEDKLHCABC
DCKLHFECAB
BKLHEDCPCA
KLHDCBAEFC
LHCBACKDE L
HBAGFK-CDE
ACFEKLHBCD
Ꭰ
Ꭰ
G
J
J
G
J
Α
Ꭰ
В
Ꭰ
G
J
G
J
Ꭰ
F
G
J K H
CABCDEFKIH
EFCABCDLHK
Ꭰ
DESIGNS LS139, 142
95
\n--- PAGE 00000108 ---\nTABLE II. - Association schemes for catalogued designs-Continued
C. LATIN SQUARE TYPE OF ASSOCIATION
SCHEMES, Lê(n)
k=2.3.4.5.6.7- Continued
4. LATIN SQUARE TYPE Ls (n) ASSOCIATION SCHEMES.
L5(7)
TO THE FIRST ASSOCIATES DEFINED BY ASSOCIATION SCHEME
L4(7) ADD FURTHER FIRST ASSOCIATES DEFINED BY SUPER-
POSITION OF the folloWING LATIN SQUARE ON THE 7X7
ARRAY OF L2(7).
Α
G
ACECBDF
G
G
CBDFACE
FACECBD
ECBDFAC
G
G
Α
G
DFACECB
G
CECBDFA
BDFACEC
L6(8)
TO THE FIRST ASSOCIATES DEFINED BY ASSOCIATION SCHEME
L5(8) ADD FURTHER FIRST ASSOCIATES DEFINED BY SUPER-
POSITION OF THE FOLLOWING LATIN SQUARE ON THE 8X8
ARRAY OF L2(8).
G
G
Ꭰ
G H
HABCEDCE
CBAHFCDE
G
FCDECBAH
EDCFHABG
DEFCAHCE
CFEDBCHA
BCHACFED
Ꭰ
AHCBDEFC
G
G
CDA B GHE F
DESIGN LS106
DESIGNS LS87, 92
L5(8)
TO THE FIRST ASSOCIATES DEFINED BY ASSOCIATION SCHEME
L4(8) ADD FURTHER FIRST ASSOCIATES DEFINED BY SUPER-
POSITION OF THE FOLLOWING LATIN SQUARE ON THE 8X8
ARRAY OF L2(8).
HBDFACEC
CACEBHFD.
G
Α
FDBHCECA
ECAGDFHB
Ꭰ
Α
DFHBECAG
CECAFDBH
Α
G
G
Ꭰ
G
Ꭰ
BHFDCACE
ACECHBDF
L6(9)
TO THE FIRST ASSOCIATES DEFINED BY THE ASSOCIATION
SCHEME L5(9) ADD FURTHER FIRST ASSOCIATES DEFINED BY
SUPERPOSITION OF THE FOLLOWING LATIN SQUARE ON THE
9X9 ARRAY OF L2(9).
G
J
G
Ꭰ
G
Ꭰ
LDBECCAHE
HFADBLCCE
B
J
CECFAHRLD
FAHBLDGEC
ECCAHFUDB
J
Ꭰ
AHFIDBECC
G
DBLCCEHFA
CCEHFADBL
BLDGECFAH
J
Ꭰ
J G
G
В
Ꭰ
F
DESIGN LS123
DESIGNS LS105, 111
L5(9)
TO THE FIRST ASSOCIATES DEFINED BY THE ASSOCIATION
SCHEME L4(9) ADD FURTHER FIRST ASSOCIATES DEFINED BY
SUPERPOSITION OF THE FOLLOWING LATIN SQUARE ON THE
9X9 ARRAY OF L2(9).
6. LATIN SQUARE TYPE L7(n) ASSOCIATION SCHEMES.
L7(8)
TO THE FIRST ASSOCIATES DEFINED BY THE ASSOCIATION
SCHEME L6(8) ADD FURTHER FIRST ASSOCIATES DEFINED BY
SUPERPOSITION OF THE FOLLOWING LATIN SQUARE ON THE
8X8 ARRAY OF L2(8).
G
G
G
F
J
CFBCHDEAL
FBCHDCAIE
Α
J
Ꭰ
B
LEABCFDCH
HDCALEFAC
J
Α
JG H
EALCEBCHD
DCHLEABCE
J
G
G
CHDEALCFB
BCFDCHLEA
ALEFBCHDC
DESIGNS LS122, 129
5. LATIN SQUARE TYPE Le(n) ASSOCIATION SCHEMES.
Α
HEADCBFC
H G
CEBCDAEH
G
F
Ꭰ
Ꭰ
Ꭰ
FCCBADHE
EHDABCCE
G
G
DAEHCFBC
Н
G
BAD CFE
DESIGN LS107
CBFGHEAD
G
BCCFEHDA
ADHEFCCB
L6(7)
TO THE FIRST ASSOCIATES DEFINED BY ASSOCIATION SCHEME
L5(7) ADD FURTHER FIRST ASSOCIATES DEFINED BY SUPER-
POSITION OF THE FOLLOWING LATIN SQUARE ON THE 7X7
ARRAY OF L2(7).
Ꭰ
Α
Ꭰ
BEADGCE
G
ADCCFBE
F
DESIGN LS88
Ꭰ
Ꭰ
G
G
EADCCFB
DCCFBEA
CFBEADG
Α
CCFBEAD
FBEADGC
G
L7(9)
TO THE FIRST ASSOCIATES DEFINED BY ASSOCIATION SCHEME
L6(9) ADD FURTHER FIRST ASSOCIATES DEFINED BY SUPER-
POSITION OF THE FOLLOwing latin SQUARE ON THE 9X9
ARRAY OF L2(9).
J
Ꭰ
G
J
J
Ꭰ
J G
Α
FEDCBALHG
EDFBACHGL
DFEACACIH
CBALHCFED
BACHGLEDE
ACBCLHOFE
G
J
Н
J
G
B
D
G
J
LHCFEDCBA
Ꭰ
HGLEDFBAC
CLHDFEACB
Α
E F D H J G BCA
DESIGN LS124
96
\n--- PAGE 00000109 ---\nTABLE II. - Association schemes for catalogued designs-Continued
C. LATIN SQUARE TYPE OF ASSOCIATION
SCHEMES, Kk(n) k= 2.3.4.5.6.7 - Continued
7. LATIN SQUARE TYPE Ls(n) ASSOCIATION SCHEMES.
L8(9)
TO THE FIRST ASSOCIATES DEFINED BY ASSOCIATION SCHEME
L7(9) ADD Further first associates defined BY SUPER-
POSITION OF THE FOLLOwing latin SQUARE ON THE 9X9
ARRAY OF L2(9).
G
J
F
G
Ꭰ
J
G
EHBDCAEIC
DCAFICEHB
CELBEHADG
BEHADCCES
ADCCEIBEH
G
F Ꭰ
HJC BC
DESIGN LS125
G
LCFHBECAD
HBECADLCE
CADICFHBE
FLCEHBDGA
Ꭰ
F
J
G
CA
A E F D
THE CYCLIC ASSOCIATION SCHEMES USED IN TABLES XIV AND
XV ARE LABeled C(V) WHERE V IS THE NUMBER OF TREAT-
MENTS. THEY ARE LISTED BELOW FOLLOWED BY THE
DESIGNS WHICH HAVE THESE ASSOCIATION SCHEMES.
C(5): C(5:2,3)
DESIGNS C1-9, 12-15
C(13): C(13:2,5,6,7,8,11)
DESIGNS C10, 16-19, 21, C23, SOL. 1, C24, SOL. 1, C29
C(17): C(17:3,5,6,7,10,11,12,14)
DESIGNS C11, 22, 26, 28
C(29): C(29:1,4,5,6,7,9,13,16,20,22,23,24,25,28)
DESIGNS C25, 27
D. CYCLIC TYPE ASSOCIATION SCHEMES, C(n).
D. CYCLIC TYPE ASSOCIATION SCHEMES
RULE. TO DETERMINE THe first associates of TREATMENT I
(I=12, . . ., V) ADD I TO THE NUMBERS X1, X2, . . ., XN1, IN
C(V:X1, X2, . . ., XN1) AND REDUCE THE SUMS MODULO V.
THEN ANY TREATMENT THAT IS NOT A FIRST ASSOCIATE
OF TREATMENT I IS ITS SECOND ASSOCIATE.
C(37): C(37:1,3,4,7,9,10,11,12,16,21,25,26,27,28,30,33,34,36)
DESIGN C20
NONSTANDARD Cyclic ASSOCIATION SCHEMES:
DESIGNS C23 SOL. 2, C24, SOL. 2
97
\n--- PAGE 00000110 ---\nTABLE III.-Sets of blocks constituting replications for partially balanced designs based on certain group divisible and Latin square
types of association schemes
set 3.1
1
2
4
7
369
258
3
6
9
set 3.2
789
456
123
3 6
set 3.3
123
78
564
9
2
7
3
8
set 3.4
set 5.1
1
6
11
12
16
27272
3
4
5
8
9 10
17 18
94
382
13 14 15
19 20
24 25
21
set 5.2
2
67899
12345
4
5 10
333
set 5.3
11 16 21
12 17
13
67828
18
22222
23
14 19 24
15 20 25
1
123
2
645
3 5
set 4.1
set
1
5
2
6
897
37
4
8
9 10 11 12
13
4.2
26
14 15 16
78
12345
4 10
5
6
9
96
34512
19 25
20 21
16
22222
11 17 23
18 24
set
12345
6 15
5.4
10 14 18
45
19 23
7
11
20
89
8 12
9
13
1177
23
16
21
22222
24
25
set 5.5
123
2
567
5 9 13
6
10 14
11 15
4 8
12
3456
16
12345
96
2345
set 4.3
set
2200
6587
1234
4.4
11 16
12 15
6543
9 14
10 13
set
785
1234
5
8 11
4365
2109
4 6 9 15
set 4.5
19
6768
1234
4 5 11
13
14
8 10 15
25
9 16
204222
173043
26
32
2=
12
3
10
4
5
14
13
set
6.1
16
12345
9 12 20 23
10 13 16
7
14 17
25
15 18 21
5 8 11 19
5.6
89667
15 17
11 18 25
12
19
13 20
24222
21
14 16 23
24222
D20000
24
28 29 30
34 35 36
SHER23
3 4 5 6
9 10 11 12
14 15 16 17 18
2233
21
22
27
98
\n--- PAGE 00000111 ---\nTABLE III.—Sets of blocks constituting replications for partially balanced designs based on certain group divisible and Latin square
types of association schemes - Continued
set
6.2
set
7.5
1
7
13
2
8
14
3
9
15
4
10
16
5
11 17
6 12 18
24
**2*28
222222
19 25
31
1
13
18
20 26
32
2
14
19
21 27 33
3
8
20
25 30
34
4
9
21
26
23 29
35
5
10
15 27
30 36
6
11
16 28
7 12 17 22 34 39
322223±
23 35 40 45
24 29 41 46
31
wwww328
42 47
36
48
37
49
43
44
set
6.3
set 7.6
1
8 15
2
9 16
3
4
11 18 19
5
12 13 20 27
6
7 14
222222
29
23 30 31
10 17 24 25 32
26
21
32233
222228
36
1
12 16
27
2
13 17
33
3
14
18
34
4
8
19
35
5
9
20
6
10
set
7.1
7
11 15
2222222
31
42 46
28 32
36 47
33
37 48
23
34
38 49
24 35
39
43
21 25 29
40
44
26
30
41
45
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
set
7.7
8 9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
22
23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30 31
32
33
36
37 38
39 40 41
222
19 20 21
1
11
21
2
12 15
34
35
3
13
16
42
4
14
17
43
44 45
46 47 48
49
5
8
18
6
9
19
set
7.2
7
10 20
2222222
24 34
37
47
25 35 38 48
26 29
39
49
27
30
40
43
28 31
41 44
32 42
45
23 33 36
46
1
8 15
2 9
16
233
22
29
30
3
10 17
24
31
4
11 18 25
32
5 12 19 26 33 40
6 13
20
7
14 21
22283
27
34
35 42
Re3 www co
36 43
set 7.8
37
44
38
45
1
10
19
28
39
46
2
11
20
47
3 12
41
48
4
13 15
49
5
14
6
set
7.3
7
9 18
18
8 17 26 35
*222222
30 39
48
31 40 49
21 23 32 41 43
24
16 25 34
33 42 44
36 45
37 46
27
29
38
47
1
9 17
25
2
3 11
19
4 12
20
28
5
13 21
6 14 15 23
7 8 16
2222222
33 41 49
set
8.1
10 18 26 34 42 43
27
35
36
44
1
2
3 4 5
6
7
8
29 37
45
9
10
11 12
13
14
15
16
30 38 46
17
18
19 20
21
22 23 24
31 39
47
25
26
27 28 29
24 32 40 48
33
34
35
36
30 31 32
37 38 39 40
41
set
7.4
42
49 50 51 52 53
57 58 59
43 44 45 46 47 48
54
60 61 62 63 64
2535
56
12
20
20 26
14
8 21 27 33
4 10 16
11 17
6 12 18 24 30 36
7 13 19 25
31 37
2222222
32 38
44
39
3 9 15 28 34 40 46
35 41
23
29
42
2 6 2 2 2 2
45
set
8.2
47
1 9 17
48
2 10 18
49
3
3225
33 41 49
26 34 42 50
57
58
11 19 27 35 43 51 59
43
4
12 20 28 36 44 52 60
5 13 21 29 37 45
53 61
323
6 14 22 30 38 46
7 15
54 62
31 39 47
8 16 24 32 40 48
55 63
56
64
99
\n--- PAGE 00000112 ---\nTABLE III.-Sets of blocks constituting replications for partially balanced designs based on certain group divisible and Latin square
types of association schemes - Continued
set 8.3
set 8.8
3
4
11
2278
1920
123 +
19 28
37
46
55
64
20 27 38
1595
45 56
63
17 26 39
48
53
62
18
25
40
47
54
61
5
14
23 32
33
42
51
60
6
7
16
8
365
13 24 31
34
41
52
59
21
15 22
22
30
29
3336
35
44
49
58
43
50
57
12345678
14
868
2822
2222
10 24 27 39 44 54 57
6 9 23
12
25 37 42
11 21 26 38 41
∞ ∞ B www ww
14 20 31
35 48
50
61
13 19 32 36
47
49
62
16 18 29 33 46
52
63
15 17 30
34 45 51
64
40
43 53 58
56
55 60
55
559
set
8.4
set
8.9
2
123 4
13 18 30
14
17 29
30
39
43 56 60
15 20 32
4
16 19
31
40 44
37 41 54 58
38 42
55
59
53 57
5 9
22
26
35 47
52
64
67
6
10
21
25 36
48
51 63
11
24 28
8
12 23
27
333333
45
50 62
1234567
11
2223
12
2 12 21 31 33
3
9
4 10
15
6
34
46 49 61
8
634
20
19
22222222
32 34
44 53 63
43
54
64
24 30 36 42
55 61
23 29 35 41
56 62
18 28 38
48
49 59
17 27 37
47
50 60
26
40
46
51
57
25 39
45
52
58
set
8.5
set
9.1
12345678
2223
15 21 27
40
42
52 62
1
2
13
23 25
16 22 28 39 41
38
51 61
10
44 50
64
19
14
24 26
37
43 49
63
28
3228
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
11 12 13
14
15
16
17 18
20 21 22 23
24
25
26 27
29 30 31
32
33 34 35
36
11
17 31 36
46 56
12 18 32 35 45
9 19 29
10
20
33333
230
+88
34 48 54
47
55535
58
37
38
39 40
41
42
43 44
45
57
46
47
48 49
50 51
52 53 54
60
55
56
57
58
59
60
61 62
63
59
64
65 66
67 68
73 74 75 76
77
78
220
69 70 71 72
79
≈880
80 81
set
8.6
set
9.2
123 +5678
13
2222
2222
6
11
10
set
17
8 9 18
8.7
2280
31
2223
16 23 26
15 24 25 35 46 53 60
14 21 28 34 47 56 57
4 13
27 33 48 55 58
12 19 30 40 41 50 63
29 39 42 49 64
38 43 52 61
36
45 54
59
123
10
11
=2
3 12 21
4
13
37
35
888888
56
5 14
44 51 62
7 16
89
17
45678
6 15 24
18
222222222
19
20
828
28
37
46
29
38
47
30 39
5555
64 73
56
65
74
48 57 66 75
31
25
26
27
33336
40 49 58 67 76
23 32 41 50 59 68 77
33 42 51 60 69 78
34 43
35 44
52 61 70 79
45
3233
53 62 71
54 63 72 81
2220
80
12345678
12 24
11
10
15
2222227
29
23
33338
30 37 48
47 51 58
52
31
40 45
49 60
83880
set
9.3
57
1 12 20
9 21 32 39 46 50
59
16 20 25 34 43 55 62
3 11
19 26 33 44
56
61
4 15
2223
34 45
2 10 21 35 43
19 36 44
14 18 27
13
17
28
335386
41
=མ
42
3355
54
63
64
5
13 24 29
53 58 69 77
54 59 67
78
76
52 60 68
28 39 47 61 72 80
37 48 62
70
81
63
6
7
18
8
16 27
9
17 25
2233
26
33333
14 22 30 38 46 63 71 79
31 42 50
32
40 51
41 49 57
555555
66 74
56
64 75
65
122
73
100
\n--- PAGE 00000113 ---\nTABLE III.-Sets of blocks constituting replications for partially balanced designs based on certain group divisible and Latin square
types of association schemes- Continued
set
9.4
set 9.9
1
13
2
14
3
15
345
4
16
2222
25
26
27
19
5
17
20
6
18
7
10
8 11 23
2222
21
9 12 24 35 38 50
2023223
42
28
29 41
2233
40
3333333
52
53
45 48
59
55555
2988
54 56 68 80
1 18 23 33
57 69
81
67 79
3
17
71
74
4
12 26
31
43
46 60
72
75
5
10
36
34
2333
44 47
58
70
73
6
39 51
62
65
77
7
37
49
63
66 78
8
61
64 76
9
222222222
38
32
2 16 24 31 39
52
53
62
67
63 68
32 37 54
61 69
222
75
73
74
36 41
27 34 42
11 25 35 40 48 55 72
46
56 · 70
78
47
57 71
76
77
15 20 30 44 49 59
13 21 28
14 19 29
$435
64
81
50 60
65 79
51 58
66 80
set
55
9.5
set
9.10
453
1 14 27
15
5 18
6 16
7
11
8
12
20
9 10 23
222222222
35 39
25
36
3 13 26 34 38
4 17 21 29 42 52
3332
37
gཅེ
49
60
70
74
50
58
71
75
12
17
2 18
51
59
72
73
3 16
63
64 77
4
11
19 30 40 53
61
65
78
5
12
20
28
41 54
62 66
76
6
10
24
32 45 46 57 67
80
7 14
33 43 47
31 44 48 56 69 79
5555
68
81
8
453
15
9 13 20
22222222
24
36 40 47 59
66 79
34 41 48 60
64 80
23
35 42
46
58
65 81
27
30
43
50
62
69 73
25
28
44
51
63
67 74
26 29
45
49
61
68 75
21
33 37
53
56 72
76
19
31
38
54
57
70
77
32
39
52
55
71
78
set
9.6
set
10.1
1
33
15 26
2 13 27
3
14
4
18 20
5
16
22222
32 43
63
48
33 44 46 61
559
1
65
76
2
3
11
12
13
66
77
25
31
45 47 62 64
78
21
22
23
442
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
24 25
26
27 28
29
30
35
21
36
6
17
19
34
7
12
89
10
9
11
2223
29
24
30
28 42
223 www
37
51 57
38
49
55
689
31
32
33
34 35
79
36 37
38
39
40
80
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
39
50
56
67
81
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
40 54
41
52
53
5569
71
60
58 72
59
2220
73
61
62
63
64
65
66 67
74
71
72
73
74 75
76
75
70
81
82
83
84
85
91
92 93 94
555
95
988
86
96
6829
68
69 70
77
78
79
80
87
88
89
97
98
99
នី៖៖
90
100
set 9.7
set
10.2
12
12
3
10
4
14
15
6 13
23
7
17
222222222
11 21 31 41 51 61 71 81
19
32 42 49
62
72
79
20
40
33
50 63 70 80
24 34 44
35
45
36
27 28
8 18 25 29 39
9 16 26 30 37 47 60 67
222307
54 55 65 75
123
2
3
123
21
52
56 66 73
4
43 53 57 64 74
46
55509
38 48 58 68 78
69 76
77
56789
15 25
16
17 27
19
12
set
9.8
16
10
2222222222
31 41 51
32 42
52
23
33 43 53 63 73
123
61
62
22
71
81
91
72 82
92
83
93
236
14 24 34 44
26 36
35 45
46
54 64 74
55
56 66
84
94
65 75 85
95
76
86
96
37 47
57 67
77 87
97
18 28 38
29
20 30 40 50
8888
48 58
39
49 59 69
60 70
2880
68
78 88
98
1280
79 89
99
90
100
2 17
878
3 18 24
4
10
25
2223
29
30
28
$43
44
45 51
55
50
43
49
5555
57 72
78
70
76
56
71
77
32
38 53
60 66 81
5
6
789
12345
26 33 39 54 58 64 79
27 31 37 52 59 65 80
19
20 36 42
21 34 40 46 62 68
22
35 41 47 63 69 75
48
302
61
67 73
74
101
\n--- PAGE 00000114 ---\nTABLE III.-Sets of blocks constituting replications for partially balanced designs based on certain group divisible and Latin square
types of association schemes-Continued
set
10.3
set
10.4
1 13
8 12 24
9 18
10
432765
20
15
14 26
11
17
16
2222222222
25
19 28 34 46
29
30
21
27
www3wwwwww
37
36
23 35 47
41
59
50 59 68 76
60 69 77 85
52 70 71
51
63
2222
84
92
1 20
93
5
86
94
8
72
87
95
38 45
57
62
73
81
96
39
48 56
61
74
82
97
32 43
31
2422
40 49 58 67
75
83
91
10
33 44 55
66
78
90
99
54
65
79
88
100
53
64
80
88
89
98
6970234
345
2222222222
12 30 33
39 43 58
49 54
16 23 40
44
59
18 27 34 50
17 28 31 45 60
19 21 38 42 56
66 74
83
55
2228
70 75 84
11 29 32 48
53
67 76
85 94
13 24 35
46
57
61
78 89 100
14
25 36 47 51
62
79
90
15 26 37 41 52
63
80
98
99
ྨ ྣོ བ སྨཿ ⪜གྷ
64
77
68
71
65 72
69 73 82
HHHHHH88%
86
87
81
102
\n--- PAGE 00000115 ---\nReference
number
TABLE IV. Singular group divisible designs: parameters and auxiliary information
Efficiencies
V
n
λι
λ
N=Vr
Unique
solution
Number of
solutions given
Complementary design
E₁
E₂
E
Dual designs
S1
$2
2
$3
6 6
$4
12
92
2
3
2
$5
10
15
2
$6
3
6
2
222222
11.00
.86 .88
12 Yes
1
A disconnected design.
2 1.00
.86 .88
24❘ Yes
1
A disconnected design.
The BIB design (3, 6, 4, 2, 2), Roy and Laha (1956).
TSD.
6
3 1.00 .86 88
36 Yes
A disconnected design.
$22.
4 1.00
.86
88
48❘ Yes
1 A disconnected design.
10
5 1.00 .86
88
60 Yes
A disconnected design.
3
11.00 .80
82
24 Yes
1
TSC.
S7
12
S8
8
18
$9
10
10
$10
10
20
$11
12
15
$12
12
10
30
S13
14
21
$14
16
28
8
$15
18
36
9
$16
20
10
$17
22 10
11
$18
8
$19
8
6
$20
12
$21
3
$22
9
6
$23
9
$24
9
12
$25
9 10
6
15
$26
10
10
$27
$28
$29
$30
S31
22222
6
6
10
6
6
12
9 6
18
028
222 ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~ ~ 3 3 3 3 3 2 3 2 3 3
333335
2 1.00 .80 82
48 Yes
1
TSC.
3 1.00
.80 .82
72 Yes
1 TSC.
1 1.00
.77 .79
40 Yes
1
S26.
2
2 1.00
.77 .79
80 Yes
1 NL, r=12.
2
11.00
75
.77
60 Yes
1❘ $58.
$54.
$101.
SR19, Solution 1.
A D(3), WHC (1956).
A D(3), WHC (1956).
T29.
A D(3), WHC (1956).
T49.
2 10
2 1.00
.75 .77
120 Yes
1 NL, r=20.
A D(3), WHC (1956).
2
6
11.00
.74
.75
84 Yes
NL, r=15.
T66.
2
7
11.00
.73 .74
112 Yes
1
NL, r=21.
T73.
2
1 1.00
.72
.73
144 Yes
1
NL, r=28.
T79.
2
9
1 1.00
.71
.73
180 Yes
1
NL, r=36.
T87.
2
10
11.00
.71 .72
220 Yes
1
NL, r=45.
T97.
2 3
21.00
94
.95
24
Yes
1
A degenerate design.
2
4 1.00 94 .95
48 Yes
1
A disconnected design.
The BIB design (4, 8, 6, 3, 4), Roy and Laha (1956).
TSD.
2 9
6 1.00 .94 .95
72 Yes
1
A disconnected design.
S83.
2
24
9
11.00
.90
.92
18 Yes
1
A disconnected design.
The BIB design (3, 9, 6, 2, 3) Roy and Laha (1956).
2 1.00
.90 .92
36
Yes
1
A disconnected design.
S3.
3 1.00 .90 .92
54 Yes
1
A disconnected design.
TSD.
4 1.00
.90 .92
72
Yes
1
A disconnected design.
$55.
10
5 1.00
90
.92
90 Yes
1
A disconnected design.
$102.
6
3 1.00
.91 .92
1 1.00
.86 .88
2 1.00
.89.90
21.00
.86 .88
9
3 1.00
.86 .88 108 Yes
10
6 20
6
2
10
4 1.00
.89 .90 120 No
$32
14 3 6 7
7 2 3 11.00 .88 .87
8277 27
60 Yes
1
S9
T58.
36 Yes
TSC
60 Yes
1
TSC
SR20, Sol. 1.
T46.
Yes
1
TSC
1
TSC
Sol. 1: TSC
2
Sol. 2: TSC
42
Yes
1 $59
A D(3), WHC (1956).
A D(3), WHC (1956).
Sol. 1: a D(3), WHC (1956).
Sol. 2: A D(3).
The true duplicate solution for the BIB design (7, 14, 6, 3, 2),
Roy and Laha (1956).
(Sol. 1: TSD.
$33
14 6 6 14
7 26 21.00
2 1.00 .88 .87
84
NO
No
4 Sol. i: S60, Sol. i,
i=1, 2, 3, 4
Sol. 2: Irregular.
Sol. 3: Irregular.
$34
143
9 6 21
7
2
9
3 1.00
88 .87
1266
(Sol. 4: not a D(x), x =1, 2, 3.
Sol. 1: $89.
No
4 NL, r=12
Sol. 2: not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
Sols. 3, 4: Irregular.
103
\n--- PAGE 00000116 ---\nTABLE IV. Singular group divisible designs: parameters and auxiliary information-Continued
Efficiencies
Reference
number
V
k
b
E
n
λι
λ
2
N=vr
Unique
solution
Number of
solutions given
Complementary design
Dual designs
E₁
E₂ E
$35
15
$36
15
6
$37
18
4
999
10 5
20
12
$38
18
ܣ
ܣ
6
15
484
3323
5596
P225
5
1 1.00
2 1.00 .83
2
1 1.00
.86
3
1 1.00
8882
.83 .85
.85
.86
.82 .84
8888
60 Yes
1
$85
T30.
120❘ Yes
1
NL, r=12
A D(3), WHC (1956).
72
Yes
1
NL, k=12
90 Yes
1
NL, k=12
$39
18
8 6 24 9
2
8
2 1.00
.86 .86
144 No
4 NL, r=16
$40
18
10 6 30 6 3
S41
20 9
6
$42
21
S43
24
S44
$45
27
$46
30
+S47
30
+S48
33
†$49
22222238
67
6 21
6 28
26 6
6
26
8
6
36
7
6
9
6
10 6
9 6 57
+$50
42 10
6 70 21
$51
10 4
8
$52
10 8
10
$53
12
2
78
22 22 2 234852503
66
10
2 1.00
.82
.84
180 Yes
1 NL, r=20
SR42, Sol. 1.
T50.
Sol. 1: A D(3), WHC (1956).
Sol. 2, 3: Irregular.
Sol. 4: not A D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
A D(3), WHC (1956).
Sol. 1: not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
30 10 2 9
2 1.00
.85 .86
180 No
3
NL, r=21
Sol. 2, 3: Irregular.
3
6
11.00
.81 .82
126 Yes
1
NL, r=15
T67.
3
7
1 1.00
.80 .81
168 Yes
1
NL, r=21
T74.
Sol. 1: M26, Sol. 1.
13 2
1 1.00 .84 .84
156 No
2
NL, r=20
Sol. 2: M26, Sol. 2.
9
1 1.00
.79
15
7
11.00
.83
10
9
1 1.00 79
282
.81
216 Yes
1
NL, r=28
T80.
.84
210 No
1
NL, r=28
M29.
.80
270 Yes
1
NL, r=36
T88.
11
3
10
1 1.00
.79 .80
330 Yes
1
NL, r=45
T98.
19
9
11.00
.83 .83
342 No
1
NL, r=48
M35.
2
10
1 1.00 .82 .83
420 No
M40.
5
2
4
3 1.00
.97 97
40 Yes
8
6 1.00 .97
.97
80 Yes
2
1 1.00 .92 .94
24 Yes
A disconnected design.
1❘ NL, r=60
1 A degenerate design.
A disconnected-design.
The BIB design (5, 10, 8, 4, 6), Roy and Laha (1956).
TSD.
The BIB design (3, 12, 8, 2, 4), Roy and Laha (1956).
$54
12
4
$55
12
6
9
$56
12
12
$57
12 10
15
$58
12 10
$59
14 4
642557
4
2 1.00
.92
.94
48 Yes
1
A disconnected design.
S4.
6
3 1.00
4 1.00
.92
10
5 1.00
.92
15 6
10 6 1.00 .95 .95
7
2
4 2 1.00
.93
33333
.92 .94
72 Yes
1
A disconnected design.
$24.
.94
96 Yes
A disconnected design.
TSD.
.94
120 Yes
1
A disconnected design.
$103.
120 Yes
1 | 511.
T93.
.94
56 Yes
1 S32.
Sol. 1: TSD.
$60
143
Sol. i: S33, Sol. i,
8 14 7 2
∞
4 1.00 .93
.94
112 No
4
Sol. 2, 3: Irregular.
i=1, 2, 3, 4.
$61
$62
15955
16 3
8
6
3
11.00 .89
.91
48 Yes
1
TSC.
16 6 8 12
6
2 1.00 .89
.91
96 Yes
1 TSC.
S63
16 7
8
14
2
7
3 1.00 .92
.93
112 No
Sol. 1: SR82, Sol. 1.
4Sol. 1, 2, 3, 4: TSC.
The true duplicate solution for the BIB design (7, 14, 8, 4, 4),
Roy and Laha (1956).
Sol. 4: not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3, 4.
SR21, Sol. 1.
A D(3), WHC (1956).
Sol. 2, 3, 4: Irregular.
$64
16
9
8
18
3 1.00 .89
.91
144 Yes
1 TSC.
A D(3), WHC (1956).
$65
18
8
8
18
3 1.00 .92
.92
144 No
(Sol. i: $105, Sol. i,
i=1, 2, 3, 4.
Sol. 1: not a D(x), x =1, 2, 3.
Sol. 2, 3, 4: Irregular.
↑ See footnote at end of table.
104
\n--- PAGE 00000117 ---\n$66
20
B
S67
20
6
10 5
8 15 10 2 6
11.00 .87 89
80 Yes
1 NL, k-12
T31.
(Sol. 1: T64, Sol. 1.
2 1.00
.91
.91
16
120 No
3 NL, k=12
Sol. 2: T64, Sol. 2.
$68
20
$69
24
$70
S71
26
2222
8
20
5
15
85
56
21.00 .87
1 1.00 .86
24 10
30
6
10
2 1.00 .86 .87
4
8
13
13 2
4 1 1.00 .90
88888
89
90
ម ៖
160 Yes
1
NL, r=12
.87 120 Yes
1
NL, k=16
Sol. 3: T64, Sol. 3.
a D(3), WHC (1956).
T51.
240 Yes
1
NL, r=20
a D(3), WHC (1956).
104
Yes
1
NL, k=18
$72
26
8
8
26
133
2
S73
28
6
21
7
S74
32
5
20
16
2
42
+$75
32
7
8
28
8
∞
657
4
2 1.00
.90
1 1.00 .85
580
Sol. 1: TDS.
.90
208 No
3 NL, r=18
86
168 Yes
1
NL, r=15
1 1.00 .89 89
160 Yes
1
NL, r=15
1 1.00
.84 .86
224 Yes
1
NL, r=2
21
The true duplicate solution for the BIB design (13, 26, 8, 4, 2),
Roy and Laha 1956).
Sol. 2, 3: Irregular.
T68.
SR59, Sol. 1.
T75.
S76
32
10
40 16
2
10
+S77
36
8
+S78
40
9
89
8 36
9
D8
2 1.00
.89
.89
320 No
1
NL, r=30
a D(3), WHC (1956).
11.00
84 85
288 Yes
1
NL, r=28
T81.
45
10
1 1.00
.83 .84
360 Yes
1
NL, r=36
T89.
$79
44 10
55
11
10 1 1.00
.83
.84
440 Yes
1
NL, r=45
T99.
S80
50
+S81
56
S82
12
893
50 25
2
8 1 1.00
88
88
400 ?
1
NL, r=42
M33.
9
63 28
2
6
11.00
.88 .88
504 No
1
NL, r=54
M37.
9
3
3
2 1.00 .96 .97
36 Yes
1
A disconnected design.
BIB design (4, 12, 9, 3, 6), Roy and Laha (1956).
S83
12
6
9
6
4 1.00 .96 .97
72 Yes
1
A disconnected design.
$20.
$84
12
9
9 12
3
9 6 1.00 96 .97
108 Yes
1
A disconnected design.
TSD.
S85
15
6
9
10
5
3
6
3 1.00 94 .95
90 Yes
1
S35
T59.
$86
18
5
9
10
6
3
5
2 1.00
.92 .93
S87
18
10
9
20
6
3
10
4 1.00 .92
32
.93
S88
21 3
9
7
7
3 3
1 1.00
.91 .92
XXX
90 Yes
1
TSC
T47.
Sol. 1: TSC
180 No
2
Sol. 2: TSC
63 Yes
1 NL, k=12
$89
21
6 9 14 7 3 6
2 1.00
.91 .92
126 No
4 NL, k = 12
$90
21
9 9 21
7 3 9
3 1.00
.91 .92
189 No
3 NL, r=12
$91
$92
16865
27
27
1223
4
8
223
96
48
12
9
9 24
9
33
48
1 1.00
.90
2 1.00
.90
3000
.91
.91
606
108 Yes
1
NL, k=18
216 No
3
NL, r=16
$93
30
9
9
30
30
10
3 9
2 1.00 .90 .90 270 No
3 NL, r=21
$94
39 6
9 26
13 3 6 11.00 .89
.89
69
234 No
2 NL, r=20
Sol. 1: M27, Sol. 1.
Sol. 2: M27, Sol. 2.
+$95
$96
57
555
45 7
79
9
9
9
3355
15
57 19 3
59
3
33
7
79
11.00
.88
9
1 1.00
888888
.89
8888
315 No
1
NL, r=28
M30.
513❘ No
1
NL, r=48
M36.
* See footnote at end of table.
Sol. 1: a D(3), WHC (1956).
Sol. 2: a D(3).
The true triplicate solution for the BIB design (7, 21, 9, 3, 3),
Ray and Laha (1956).
Sol. 1: S34.
Sol. 2, 3: Irregular.
Sol. 4: not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3.
Sol. 1: SD.
Sol. 2: not A D(x), x = 1, 2, 3.
Sol. 3: Irregular.
SR43, Sol. 1.
Sol. 1: a D(3), WHC (1956).
Sol. 2: Irregular.
Sol. 3: not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3.
Sol. 1: not a D(x), x =1, 2, 3.
Sol. 2, 3: Irregular.
105
\n--- PAGE 00000118 ---\nTABLE IV. Singular group divisible designs: parameters and auxiliary information Continued
Dual designs
M41.
The BIB design (6, 12, 10, 5, 8), Roy and Laha (1956).
TSD.
The BIB design (3, 15, 10, 2, 5), Roy and Laha (1956).
$5.
Efficiencies
Reference
number
E
N-W
Unique
solution
Number of
solutions given
Complementary design
E:
E
+597
$98
12
82
05
63 10 9 70
5 10
06
21
26
2
$99
12 10 10
12
$100
15 2 10
3
$101
15
4
10
6
$102
15
6 10
$103
15
8
10
12
$104
15 10 10
15
$105
18 10 10 18 9
63 3
339
3225
3
10
1 1.00 .88
5 4 1.00
888
88
630
No
1
NL,r-60
98 98
60 Yes
1
A disconnected design.
10
8 1.00 98 98
120 Yes
2
A disconnected design.
5
2
1 1.00
94
.95
30 Yes
A disconnected design.
5555
5
2 1.00
94 .95
60 Yes
1 A disconnected design.
3 1.00
.94 .95
90 Yes
A disconnected design.
$25.
8
4 1.00
.94 .95
120 Yes
A disconnected design.
$57.
5
10
5 1.00
94 .95
150 Yes
A disconnected design.
2
10
5 1.00
.95
.95
180 No
4 Sol. i: $65, Sol. i,
i-1, 2, 3, 4.
$106
$107
$108
2220
3 10
6
10
9 10 18
555
628
299
1 1.00 .91 .93
2 1.00
5
9
3 1.00 .91 .93
aaa
91 .93
338
60 Yes
1
TSC.
120❘ Yes
1
TSC.
180 Yes
1 TSC.
$109
20
9 10 18 10
2 9
4 1.00 .94 .94
180 No
3 Sol. 1, 2, 3: SC
$110 22 5 10
11
11 2 5 21.00
.94
96
.94
90
110 Yes
1 NL, K-12
TSD.
ĮSol. 1: not a D(x), x- 1, 2, 3.
(Sol. 2, 3, 4: Irregular.
SR22, Sol. 1.
A D(3), WHC (1956).
A D(3), WHC (1956).
Sol. 1: Irregular.
Sol. 2: Irregular.
Sol. 3: not a D(x), x-1, 2, 3, 4.
The true duplicate solution for the BIB design (11, 22, 10, 5, 4),
Roy and Laha (1956).
(Sol. 1: TSD.
Sol. 2: not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3.
Sol. 3: Irregular.
T32.
A D(3), WHC (1956).
T52.
A D(3), WHC (1956).
T69.
T76.
The true duplicate solution for the BIB design (21, 42, 10, 5, 2),
Roy and Laha (1956).
$111
22 10
10
22
11 2 10
4 1.00
.94
.94
90
220 No
3 NL, r-12
S112
25
10
10
S113
25
10
20
$114
30 5
10
15
$115
30 10
10 30
+S116
35
6
10 21
†S117
40 7 10 28
†S118
42
СЛ
5 10
21
2222
55
7
8
21
5555552
1 1.00
.89 .91
100 Yes
1
NL, k-15
2 1.00
.89 .91
200 Yes
1
NL, r-12
1 1.00
.88 .90
150 Yes
NL, K-20
10
2 1.00 .88 90
300 Yes
1 NL, r-20
675
1 1.00
.88
.89
210 Yes
NL, r-15
1 1.00
.87 .88
280 Yes
1
NL, r-21
1 1.00 .91 .91
210 Yes
1 NL, r-16
+$119
42
10 10 42 21
2
+$120
45 8 10 36
9
+$121
50
6 10
30 25
252
10
1 1.00 87
2 1.00 .91 .91
.88
420 No
NL, r-32
Sol. given: TSD.
360 Yes
1
NL, r-28
T82.
1 1.00 .91 .91
300 Yes
1
NL, r-24
SR 76.
†S122
50
9 10
45 10
5
1 1.00 .86 .87
450 Yes
1
NL, r-36
T90.
†S123
55
10
55 11
5
10
1 1.00 .86
.87
550 Yes
1
NL, r-4
45
T100.
+$124
82
10
10
82
41
2 10
1 1.00
.90
.90
820 ?
1
NL, r-72
M42.
† Plan not verified by computer.
106
\n--- PAGE 00000119 ---\nTABLE V. Singular group divisible designs
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Design S101
Groups: (3,2)
Plan: Repeat the plan of S1 five times.
Design S1:
v = 6,
r = 2,
m= 3,
n = 2,
k = 4,
A₁ = 2,
b= 3
A2 1
=
c₁ = 1, c₂ = 1/2, H= 7/2, A
= 3
E, 1.00, E2.86, E= .88
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: The BIB design (3,6,4,2,2), Roy and Laha
(1956)
Groups: (3,2)
Plan: 1 4
2
564
231
45
3 6
Design S6:
v = 8,
MF 4,
r = 3, k = 4,
n = 2, λ₁
=
3,
λ2 1
b= 6
=
= 6
=
1, c₂= 1/4, H= 5, A
E,= 1.00, E₂ = .80, E= .82
2
Solution: Unique; affine resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Design SR19, Solution 1
Groups: (4,2)
Design S2:
v = 6,
m= 3,
r=
= 4,
n = 2,
k = 4,
λ₁ = 4,
b = 6
λ₂ = 2
Plan:
=
c₁ = 1, c₂ = 1/2, H= 7, A 12
E 1.00, E₂ = .86, E= .88
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Truly self dual
Groups: (3,2)
Plan:
2
231
3
5
6
456
123
6
594
123
456
564
5 2
231
2 6
88
78
24
34
57
56
3
13
5
4 8
87
12
3
43
36
2
12
b= 12
=
22
Design S7:
v = 8,
r = 6,
k = 4,
m= 4,
n = 2,
λ₁ = 6,
λ₂
b = 9
c₁ = 1, c₂ = 1/4, H= 10, A = 24
E, 1.00, E,= .80, E= .82
=
2
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (4,2)
v = 6,
r = 6,
k = 4,
m= 3,
n = 2,
λ₁
=
6,
2
= 3
Plan:
5
Design S3:
=
1, c,= 1/2, H= 21/2, A = 27
E, 1.00, E2.86, E= .88
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Design S22
Groups: (3,2)
Plan: Repeat the plan of S1 three times.
Design S4:
y= 6, r = 8,
m= 3,
n = 2,
k = 4,
λ₁
b= 12
= 8,
2 = 4
c 1, c₂
=
1/2, H= 14, A 48
E= 1.00, E,= .86, E = .88
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Design S54
Groups: (3,2)
Plan: Repeat the plan of S1 four times.
78
5
36
2
6
88
57
87
56
34
12
24
13
43
12
36
78
5
57
6
88
56
87
7
12
34
13
24
12
2
43
Design S8:
V=
8, r =
9,
k = 4,
b= 18
mF 4, n = 2,
A₁
=
: 9,
2
= 3
54
b= 15
10, λ2 = 5
c, l, c₂ = 1/4, H= 15, A
1.00, E2.80, E= .82
E,
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (4,2)
(Plan continued on next page)
Design S5:
v=
6,
r= 10, k = 4,
=
c1, c2
=
m= 3, n = 2,
1/2, H= 35/2, A
=
E, 1.00, E, .86, E= .88
λ₁
=
=
75
107
\n--- PAGE 00000120 ---\nTABLE V. Singular group divisible designs – -
Continued
Plan: Repeat the plan of S6 three times.
4,
Design S9:
v = 10, r = 4,
2, λι
m= 5, n=
k
=
b = 10
=
4,
A2
= 1
Solution:
Dual:
Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 20
A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (6,2)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of S11.
c₁ = 1, c₂ = 1/10, H= 13/2, A = 10
-
E, 1.00, E₂ = .77, E= .79
Solution:
2
Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Design S26
Dual: Design T29
Groups: (5,2)
Plan:
78980
10
23451
67890
12345
10
6
12345
67890
1
2
3
10
4
10
5
34512
89667
b= 20
= 2
Design S10:
v = 10, r =
m= 5, n = 2,
8,
k = 4,
A₁
=
8,
2
=
40
C₁ = 1, c,= 1/10, H= 13, A
E, 1.00, E,= .77, E= .79
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (5,2)
= 12
Plan: Duplicate the plan of S9.
Design S13:
v = 14,
r = 6,
k = 4,
m= 7,
n = 2,
λ₁
=
6,
A₂ =
b= 21
=
1
c₁ = 1, c₂ = −1/14, H= 19/2, A = 21
E, 1.00, E,= .74, E= .75
Solution:
Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 15
Dual: Design T66
Groups:
(7,2)
Plan: Cyclically develop the three initial
blocks
1 8 2 9
1 8
3
10
1 8 4 11
using cycles of length 7 and cycling
within the two subsets of treatments 1-7
and 8-14. The two left-most positions
within blocks contain three replications,
and each initial block provides two
replications.
Design S14:
v = 16, r = 7, k = 4,
m= 8, n = 2, λ₁ = 7,
b= 28
λ₂ = 1
c₁ = 1, c₂ = −1/8, H= 11, ▲ - = 28
E, 1.00, E₂ = .73, E = .74
=
==
= 21
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design T73
Design S11: v = 12,
m= 6,
r = 5,
n = 2,
k = 4,
b= 15
Groups: (8,2)
λ₁
=
5,
2
=
1
Plan: 1 9 2 10
1 9
246
791
135
c1, c2= 0, H 8, A = 15
E, 1.00, E,= .75, E = .77
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Design S58
Dual: Design T49
Groups: (6,2)
Plan:
357
11 4 12
2 10
13 6 14
4 12
15
8 16
6 14
1635
3857
11
8 16
7 15
1236
9
4 12
10
7 15
3 11 5 13
14
8 16
9272
1234
5 13
2 10
6 14
4 12
11 15
8 16
789
123
789
123
10
5 11 6 12
4 10
5 11
6 12
6 12
20
4 10
5 11
782
124
802
3
9
6
12
10
5
11
1234
11
780
124
5
11
9012
6 14
1 9
5 13
2 10
8 16
4 12
4 12 7 15
5 13
5146
7368
7 15
11
8 16
3 9
4 10
6 12
1235
9
8 16
10
4 12
11 6 14
5 13
7 15
Design S12:
ci
E,
v = 12, r = 10,
m= 6, n = 2,
1, c₂ = 0, H= 16, A =
1.00, E,= .75, E= .77
2
60
b= 30
k = 4,
λ₁ 10, A2 = 2
=
108
\n--- PAGE 00000121 ---\nTABLE V. Singular group divisible designs - Continued
Design S15:
v = 18,
r = = 8,
m= 9,
n = 2,
k = 4,
λ₁ =
b= 36
8,
A2
= 1
-
C1 1, c₂ = -1/6, H= 25/2, A = 36
E,
1.00, E₂ = .72, E= .73
2
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= = 28
Dual: Design T79
Groups: (9,2)
=
1, c2=-5/22, H= 31/2, A 55
E 1.00, E₂ = .71, E = .72
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 45
Dual: Design T97
Groups: (11,2)
Plan:
Cyclically develop the five initial blocks
Plan: Cyclically develop the four initial blocks
1 12 2 13
1 12
3 14
1 12
4 15
1 12 5 16
1 10 2 11
1 10
3 12
10 1
13 4
10 1 14 5
using cycles of length 9 and cycling
within the two subsets of treatments 1-9
and 10-18. The two positions within
blocks on the left (right) contain four
replications, and each initial block provides
two replications.
1 12
6 17
using cycles of length 11 and cycling with-
in the two subsets of treatments 1-11 and
12-22. The two left-most positions within
blocks contain five replications.
Design S18:
v =
8,
r =
= 3,
k = 6,
b = 4
mF 4,
n = 2,
λι
= 3,
λ2
= 2
c₁ = 1, c₂
Design S16:
v = 20, r =
m 10, n= 2,
9,
k = 4,
b= 45
E, 1.00,
A₁
=
9,
2
= 1
=
45
=
1, c₂-1/5, H= 14, A
E, 1.00, E,= .71, E= .73
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
=36
11/16, H= 17/3, A = 8
==
E₂ = .94, E= .95
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: A degenerate design, r = 1
Dual: The BIB design (4,8,6,3,4), Roy and Laha
(1956)
Groups: (4,2)
Plan:
Dual: Design T87
Groups: (10,2)
Plan: 1 11 2 12
1 11
3 13
7856
2341
5678
1234
6785
3412
3 13 4 14
2 12
5 15
5 15 9 19
67
16 8 18
4 14 8 18
6 16
10 20
Design S19:
v = 8,
r =
6,
k = 6,
b= 8
17 10 20
7 17 9 19
m= 4,
λ
n = 2,
=
6,
=
2 4
12379
12379
11 4 14
1 11 5 15
6 16
2 12
5 15
6 16
8 18
3 13
9 19
10 20
8 18 10 20
54979
14
19
17
12345
11
67890
H2345
16
17
8 18
12
3 13
14 9 19
5 15 10 20
1 11
8 18
9 19
10 20
4 14 6 16
7 17
12345
23
14 10 20
5 15 6 16
11
19
2 12 10 20
92678
12345
12345
5 15
12345
11 7 17
-
1, c2= 11/16, H= 34/3, ▲ = 32
E, 1.00, E2.94, E = .95
Solution: Unique; 3-resolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Truly self dual
Groups: (4,2)
2 12 8 18
13 9 19
Plan:
16
17
8 18
6857
2143
5678
1234
6
3412
6857
2143
7586
1234
5678
3412
7586
5
1 11 10 20
2
4 14
2468
12 3 13
5 15
6 16 7 17
8
18
9 19
Design S17:
v = 22, r = 10,
m 11, n= 2,
k = 4,
λ₁
=
b= 55
10, A2
1
109
\n--- PAGE 00000122 ---\nTABLE V. Singular group divisible designs - Continued
Design S24:
v = 9,
r = 8,
k = 6,
b = 12
m= 3,
n = 3,
λ₁
=
8,
λ. = 4
Design S20:
y= 8,
r =
= 9,
m= 4,
n = 2,
λ₁
=
k = 6,
9, λ2
b = 12
= €6
=
1, c₂= 11/16,
H= 17, A:
=
72
E,= 1.00, E₂ = .94, E = .95
Solution: Unique; 3-resolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Design S83
Groups: (4,2)
Plan: Repeat the plan of S18 three times.
=
CI 1, c₂ = 4/9, H= 14, A = 48
1.00, E₂ = .90, E = .92
E,
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Design S55
Groups: (3,3)
Plan: Repeat the plan of S21 four times.
Design S21:
v = 9, r =
m= 3,
2,
n= 3, A1
k = 6,
b= 3
=
2,
A2
=
1
Design S25: v = 9, r = 10, k = 6,
n = 3, λ,
IF 3,
=
10, A2 5
b= 15
-
Ci
1, c,
=
E= 1.00, E,
4/9, H= 7/2, A = 3
.90, E = .92
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: The BIB design (3,9,6,2,3), Roy and Laha
(1956)
Groups: (3,3)
Plan: 1 4
2 5
3
6
594
231
789
897
c₁ = 1, c₂= 4/9, H= 35/2, A 75
1.00, E₂ = .90, E= .92
2
E,
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Design S102
Groups: (3,3)
Plan: Repeat the plan of S21 five times.
Design S26: v = 10,
r =
m= 5, n = 2,
6,
k = 6,
A₁ 6,
b = 10
=
=
2 = 3
1, c2= 1/2, H= 11, A
30
Design S22:
v = 9,
r = 4,
k = 6,
b= 6
=
4,
2
=
2
m= 3, n= 3, λι
c₁ = 1, c₂= 4/9, H= 7, ▲ = 12
E, 1.00, E,= .90, E = .92
2
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Design S3
Groups: (3,3)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of S21.
Design S23:
=
v =
9,
r =
6,
k = 6,
n = 3,
λι
=
6, λ2
b= 9
= 3
m= 3,
1, c₂ = 4/9, H= 21/2, ▲ = 27
E= 1.00, E,= .90, E = .92
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Truly self dual
Groups: (3,3)
Plan:
897
564
231
789
456
123
3
6
1
231
8
2
9
3
7
868
6
594
123
789
456
6
564
231
8
9
867
456
123
789
C 1
E, 1.00, E₂ = .91, E = .92
Solution: Unique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Design S9
Dual: Design T58
Groups: (5,2)
Plan:
34512
78966
10
23451
67899
12345
3
10
89667
45123
2
92678
10
2345.
10
1
78986
12345
67899
10
3, Az
b = 6
= 1
Design S27:
v = 12,
m= 4,
r = 3,
k = 6,
n = 3,
λ₁
-
c₁ = 1, c₂ = 1/6, H= 5, ▲ = 6
E, 1.00, E, .86, E= .88
=
Solution: Unique; affine resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Design SR20, Solution 1
Groups: (4,3)
Plan: 1 2
3
24
57
02
6 9
10
8
11 12
(Plan continued on next page)
110
\n--- PAGE 00000123 ---\nTABLE V. Singular group divisible designs - Continued
Plan: Repeat the plan of S27 three times.
78
5
36
34
12
43
12
8
9
12
1
10 11
2
9
10 12
12
11
87
56
Design S31:
v = 12,
m= 6,
r = 10,
n = 2,
λ₁
=
k = 6,
10, Ag
b=20
=
4
λ2
b= 10
=
1120
b= 12
22
c, = 1, c,= 3/8, H= 18, A = 80
E,
1.00, E,
.89, E= .90
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
5-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (6,2)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of S28.
Solution 2:
Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
A D(3)
Dual:
Groups: (6,2)
Plan:
1
2
1
78
72
6 12
82
26
4 10 5 11
43
88
23
9 6 12
9
3 9
5 11
4 10
15
7
6 12 4 10 5 11
87
21
Design S28:
1, c,
v = 12,
r = 5,
k = 6,
m= 6, n = 2,
λ₁
5,
3/8, H= 9, A = 20
E‚= 1.00, E,= .89, E = .90
-
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Design T46
Groups: (6,2)
Plan:
9
4 10
7
POET822222
6 12
12
3451266666
4 10 5 11
4 10 6 12
890178DOOD
23451234 SI
4 10
5
11
5 11
5 11
T8QONE7890
1234SSI234
5 11
12
4 10
1
6 12
Design S29:
v = 12, r = 6,
m= 4, n = 3,
k= 6,
λ₁ = 6,
λg
=
1, c₂ = 1/6, H= 10, A= 24
=
E, 1.00, E, .86, E= .88
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (4,3)
3
6 12
92
4 10 2
5 11
1 7
4 10
5 11
6 12 1 7
5 11 2 8
6
12
4
10
32
31
86
9
8
97
9
12
78
3
5 11
91
4 10
6 12
4 10
6 12
5 11
53
27
41
5 11
9
6 12
4 10
6 12
3
18
79
32
13
1
7
8
4 10
2
8
9
5 11
82
26
78
56
92
36
43
12
Plan: 1 2 5
3
4
57
11
6 9 10
8 11 12
9 11
ཌསྲ
72
1
34
21
02
57
98
10 12
5
87
4
9 12
7 10
6
36
13
24
56
10 9
7 12 11
1
12
78
2
12
43
96
21
11 9
12
12 10
87
34
12
11 10
56
b= 18
λε
=
3
Design S30:
=
v = 12, r = 9,
k = 6,
n= 4, n = 3, λ₁ = 9,
1, c, 1/6, H= 15, A = 54
E, 1.00, E₂ = .86, E= .88
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (4,3)
b= 7
3, λ = 1
Design S32:
v = 14, r = 3,
m= 7, n = 2,
k= 6,
λ₁
=
c₁ = 1, c₂ = 2/7, H= 16/3, A = 7
1.00, E,= .87, E= .88
E,
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design S59
Dual:
The true duplicate solution for the BIB
design (7,14,6,3,2), Roy and Laha (1956)
Groups: (7,2)
(Plan continued on next page)
111
\n--- PAGE 00000124 ---\nTABLE V. Singular group divisible designs - Continued
Plan:
1
8
2 9
23
9
4 11
3
10
5 12
3 10
4 11
6
13
4 11
5
12
7
14
5 12
6
13
1
8
6 13
7
14
2 9
7 14
8
3
10
123489 o
4567123
9
4
10 5
11
11
POI2348
12
13
14
1
10
Plan:
1
1234567
10
11
234567
89O1234
v=
m= 7,
Design S33:
CI
1,
= 2/7, H= 32/3, A
E, 1.00, E,= .87, E= .88
2
Solution 1: Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Design S60, Solution 1
Dual: Truly self dual
Groups: (7,2)
14, r =
6,
k = 6,
b= 14
n = 2,
λ₁
=
6,
A₂ = 2
= 28
P8W0234
11 4 10
10
12
13
14
2143567
9 2 8
11
3
12
13
14
9
10
023498
1435672
12
13
5
14 7
2
1
356
11 4
Plan:
Solution 4:
Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Design S60, Solution 4
Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Dual:
Groups: (7,2)
POA234
1234567
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
2345671
2
9 4
11
10
11
12
13
14
567123
6
7
1
1234800
Plan:
9
8 3
9
11
1234567
89O1234
10
11
11
4567123
9
1234800
2345
12
13
6
14
8 1
Solution 2:
Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Design S60, Solution 2
Dual: Irregular
9 4 11
89O1234
1234567
10
11
6
2345671
3
11
5
4567123
P012348
7
1
123489g
7
3 10
11
10
98183
12 5 14
14
214 3657
2
8
10
11
13
4
10
12
3
13
14
6
12
9
11
3657214
P32408
1436572
9
Design S34:
V=
b= 21
=
23
=
14, r = 9,
m= 7, n = 2,
1, c, 2/7, H= 16, A
E= 1.00, E₂ = .87, E = .88
k = 6,
A₁ 9,
=
λε
=
63
Solution 1: Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: Design S89
Groups: (7,2)
Plan: Repeat the plan of S32 three times.
Solution 2:
Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual:
Not a D(x), x =
Groups: (7,2)
1, 2, 3
Groups:
(7,2)
Plan:
1234567
9
11
12
13
2345671
8 2 9 4
10
11
5 12
14
6 13
14
8
4567123
11
c₁ =
12
6
13
14
8
9
10
9
BRA2349
213456
a8O1234
10
11
8 1
10
7
11
4
12 5
13 6
14 7 8
2 10
13456
11
4567213
12349∞
Solution 3:
Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Design S60, Solution 3
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (7,2)
(Plan continued on next page)
112
\n--- PAGE 00000125 ---\nTABLE V. Singular group divisible designs-Continued
Plan: Cyclically develop the three initial
blocks
1
8
3 10
6 13
213
98
2 9 1 8
3 10
4 11
5 12
3 10 4 11
6
13
1
8
4 11
5 12
4 11
5 12
7 14
1
8 2 9 7 14
5 12
6 13
2 9
6 13 7 14
1 8
7 14 2 9
3
10
using cycles of legnth 7 and cycling within
the two subsets of treatments 1-7 and 8-14.
Counting from the left (or right) each
pair of positions within blocks contains
three replications, and each initial block
provides three replications.
Solution 3: Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: Irregular
Remark: It is known to the author that the BIB
design (7,21,9,3,3) has at least 7
distinct types of block structure and
hence there exist at least 7 distinct
solutions for the design S34.
Design S35:
v = 15,
m= 5,
r = 4,
n = 3,
k = 6,
b= 10
A₁
=
4,
λ2
= 1
Groups: (7,2)
Plan: 1 8 2 9
4 11
2 9
3 10
5 12
E,
3 10
4
11
6 13
4 11
5 12
7 14
5 12
6
13
1
8
6 13
7 14
2
9
7 14 1
8
3 10
1 8 2 9
23
4 11
2 9 3 10 5 12
c₁ = 1, c₂ = 0, H 13/2, A = 10
1.00, E,= .83, E= .85
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Design S85
Dual: Design T30
Groups: (5,3)
Plan:
6 11
3 10
4 11
4 11 5 12
5 12
6 13
7 14
5671
6
14
POA2348
6 13
7 14
13 1
8
12345
7 12
8 13
10 15
9 14 5 10 15
23451
7 12
8 13
4
9 14
6 11
2 9
3 10
2 9
98
1 8 4 11
4 11
3 10
6 13 5 12
5 12
7 14
1436572
8
3 10
6 13
10
5 12
12345
6 11
7
12
8 13
345
8 13
9 14
5 10 15
9 14
5 10 15
1
6 11
2
7 12
6 13 7 14
9
14
1
8
Design S36:
v = 15,
2 9
4 11
m= 5,
r = 8,
n = 3,
λ₁
=
k=6,
8,
b= 20
2
2
=
Solution 4:
Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (7,2)
Plan:
123
8
2 9
4 11
9 3 10
5 12
3 10
4 11
6 13
4 11
5 12
7 14
5 12 6 13
1
8
6 13
7 14
2
9
7 14
1
8
3 10
1 8
2 9
4 11
2 9
3 10
5 12
3 10
4 11
6 13
4 11
5 12
7 14
5 12
6 13
1
8
6 13
7 14
2
9
7 14 1 8
3
10
= 1, =
C2 0, H= 13, A = 40
E, 1.00, E,= .83, E= .85
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (5,3)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of S35.
Design S37:
c₁ = 1, c,
E, 1.00,
Solution:
v = 18, r = 4,
m= 9,
n= 2,
k = 6,
λ = 4,
λε
=
b= 12
1
=
1/6, H= 7, A = 12
E,= .86, E= .86
Unique; affine resolvable
= 12
Complement: Not listed, k
Dual: Design SR42, Solution 1
Groups: (9,2)
(Plan continued on next page)
113
\n--- PAGE 00000126 ---\nTABLE V. Singular group divisible designs - Continued
Plan:
1 10
2 11
7 16
3 12
258
11
14
8 17
3 12
6 15
9 18
1
10
4 13
39
343
456
14 8 17
15 9 18
471
258
399
147
13
320
16
18 1 10
10
034
147
13
582
14
13
7 16
17
16 2 11
258
11
6 15
14
9 18
8 17
3 12
Design S38:
=
v = 18,
r =
5,
m= 6, n = 3,
k = 6,
λ₁ 5,
b = 15
-
2
= 1
=
15
C1 1, c₂ = -1/9, H= 8, A :
-
E, 1.00, E₂ = .82, E=
.84
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, k
Dual: Design T50
Groups: (6,3)
Plan:
135
7 13 2 8
= = 12
14
9 15
4 10 16
6 12 18
Plan:
1 10
4 13
7 16
1 10
2 11
123
3 12
10
H2
123
11
11 3 12
H4C
258
14
6 15
17 9 18
13 7 16
345
456
564
14
8 17
15 9 18
14 9 18
453
15
7 16
3 12 4 13 8 17
10
645
HE
11
3 12
2 11
H31
247
13
16
2 11
1 10
3 12
2 11
1
10
3
12
3
1
2 11
15 8 17
534
13
9 18
14 7 16
10
14
42
158
456
17
13
369
258
978
789
345
14
15
14
12
15
18
16
17
18
15
13 8 17
976
18
16
867
14
13
15
798
18
687
16
17
453
564
435
546
201
5 11 17
124
7 13
8 14
10 16
365
9 15
12 18
5 11 17
13
14
15
345
4 10 16
6 12 18
5 11 17
536
789
123
346
780
124
13
14
4 10 16
789
123
13
14
9 15
645
345
5 11 17
12 18
10 16
11 17
9 15
12 18
Design S39:
=
v = 18, r = 8,
m= 9,
k = 6,
n = 2,
λι
=
8,
1, c2= 1/6, H= 14, A = 48
E= 1.00, E₂= .86, E= .86
Solution 1: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r : 16
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (9,2)
=
Plan: Duplicate the plan of S37.
Solution 2: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
= = 16
b= 24
-
2 2
Solution 3: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r 16
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (9,2)
Plan: 1 10
4 13
258
399
=
258
11
12
7 16
14
17
6 15
18
1 10
2 11
4 13
5 14
3 12
6 15
789
7 16
17
18
678
123
2 11
REE
10 5 14
6 15
12 4 13
876
18
16
17
867
1
10 6 15
8 17
2 11
4 13
9 18
3 12
5 14
7 16
H26
237
11
1 10
4 13
12
5 14
6
15
16
8 17
9
18
HO3
214
11
3 12
10
14
4 13 6 15
789
16
17
9 18
978
Groups: (9,2)
(Plan continued on next page)
114
\n--- PAGE 00000127 ---\nTABLE V. Singular group divisible designs – Continued
H03
214
2 11
5
14
9 18
10
6
15
7 16
13
3 12
8
17
4 13
301
412
5 14
7 16
10
3 12
9 18
11
6 15 8 17
Design S41:
v = 20,
r = = 9,
k = 6,
m
10, n= 2,
λ₁
=
9, Az
b= 30
= 2
Solution 4: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed,
r = 16
Dual: Not a D(x), x =
1, 2, 3
Groups: (9,2)
Plan: 1 10 2 11
039
147
3 12
13
5 14
15
16 8 17
9 18
123
10
4 13
11 5 14
12 6 15 9 18
789
16
17
678
c₁ =
=
1, c, 1/8, H= 47/3, A = 60
E, 1.00, E,= .85, E= .86
Solution 1: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= = 21
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups: (10,2)
Plan: Cyclically develop the six initial blocks
6 16 8 18 1 11
8 18 4 14
3 13
2 12
8 18
5 15
6 16
7 17 8 18
2 12
5 15
6 16
123
10
5 14
9 18
11
6 15
7 16
3 12 4 13
8 17
1 10
2
11
645
15
13
3 12 5 14 7 16
534
8 17
9
18
3 13 4 14 6 16
using cycles of length 5 and cycling
within the four subsets of treatments 1-5,
6-10, 11-15, and 16-20. Counting from the
left (or right) each pair of positions
within blocks contains a replication.
Solution 2: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 21
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (10,2)
Plan: 1 11 2 12 4 14
136
023
10 2 11
12
5 14
6 15 7 16 8
468
9
387
13
2 12
3 13
5 15
18
3 13
4 14
6 16
17
4 14
5 15
7 17
5 15
6
16
1 11
124
4 13
T=8
10 3 12
11 5
14
8 17 9 18
799
16
6
15
658
6 16
7 17
2 12
1 11
7 17
3 13
7 17
5 15
8 18
8 18
1 11
6 16
123
10
11
12
574
14
16
866
463
9 18
=3
124
10
324
635
11
4 13 6 15
15 9
12
18
17
4 13 5 14 7 16
Remark: The BIB design (9,24,8,3,2) is known by
the author to have at least 7 distinct
solutions and hence there are at least 7
distinct plans for the present design,
although only four of them are shown
here.
785
17
6 16
4 14
8 18
2 12
8 18
7 17
3 13
1 11
8 18
8 18 2 12
4 14
86
8 18
3 13
5 15
5 15
9 19
2 12
9 19
6 16
3 13
4 14
7 17
9 19
9 19
5 15
1 11
7
22
2 12 9 19
6 16
17 9 19
3 13
9 19 4 14
1 11
3 13
2 12
10 20
1 11
10 20
2 12
10 20
3 13
4 14
Design S40:
v = 18, r = 10, k = 6,
m= 6, n = 3, λ₁ =
10, A2
b= 30
4 14
10 20
5 15
=
2
5 15
6 16
10 20
6 16
10 20
7 17
c₁ = 1, c₂ = −1/9, H= 16, ▲ = 60
E= 1.00, E,= .82, E = .84
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 20
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (6,3)
Plan:
Duplicate the plan of S38.
=
7 17
1 11
10 20
10 20
8 18
9 19
10 20
8
18
9 19
(Plan continued on next page)
115
\n--- PAGE 00000128 ---\nTABLE V. Singular group divisible designs -
– Continued
Solution 3: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 21
Dual: Irregular
Solution:
Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 21
Dual: Design T74
Groups: (8,3)
Plan:
Groups: (10,2)
Plan: 2 12
6 16
9 19
3 13
4
14
7 17
7
17
3
13
4 14
1 11
5
15
8
18
6 16
2
12
9 19
8 18
1 11
5 15
6 16
8
18
3 13
9 19
7 17
1 11
10
20
7 17
2 12
3
13
1 11
10 20
8
18
2 12
4 14
5 15
9 19
10 20
5 15
4 14
6 16
2 12
3 13
5 15
6 16
10 20
3 13
10
20
5 15
4 14
1 11
6 16
7 17
8 18 10 20
2 12
7 17
8 18
9 19
42
14
9 19
1 11
2 12
1 11
3 13
7
17
5 15
2 12
4 14
8 18
6 16
9 19
4 14
10 20
10 20
7 17
8 18
9 19
3 13
5 15
1 11
10 20
6 16
4
14
2 12
1 11
3 13
9 19
8 18
5
15
6 16
7
17
Design S42:
y=
21,
r =
6,
k = 6,
b= 21
MF 7,
n = 3,
λ₁
=
: 6,
2
= 1
1357
.9 17
2 10 18
11 19
4 12 20
13 21
6 14 22
15 23
8 16 24
1246
9
17
3 11 19
2 10 18
8 16 24
12 20
5 13 21
6 14 22
7 15 23
1236
9 17
10 18
4 12 20
7 15 23
3 11 19
5 13 21
6 14
22
8
16 24
1234
9
17
5 13 21
10 18
6
14 22
11 19 7 15 23
12 20
8 16 24
1234
2002
9 17
10 18
11 19
6
14 22
5 13 21
8 16 24
4 12 20
7 15 23
1245
9 17
10 18
12 20 6 14 22
7 15 23
3 11 19
13 21
8 16 24
123
9
17
10 18
8 16 24
4 12 20
11 19
6 14 22
5 13 21
7 15 23
c₁ = 1, c₂ = -4/21, H= 19/2, A = 21
1.00, E, .81, E= .82
E,
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 15
Dual: Design T67
Groups: (7,3)
Plan: Cyclically develop the three initial
blocks
1 8 15 2 9 16
8 15 1 10 17 3
15 1 8 18 4 11
using cycles of length 7 and cycling
within the three subsets of treatments
1-7, 8-14, and 15-21. The three positions
within blocks on the left (right) contain
three replications, and each initial block
provides two replications.
Design S43:
v = 24, r = 7,
n = 3,
m= 8,
k = 6,
λ₁ 7,
b = 28
=
=
CI
E,
=
1, c₂-1/4, H= 11, A
-
1.00, E, .80, E = .81
-
28
λ2 1
Design S44:
v = 26, r = 6,
k = 6,
b= 26
m 13, n= 2,
λ₁
= 6,
λε
= 1
c₁ = 1, c₂ = 1/26, H= 31/3, A = 26
E,
=
1.00, E, .84, E= .84
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 20
Dual: Design M26, Solution 1
Groups: (13,2)
Plan: Cyclically develop the two initial blocks
1 14 3 16 9 22
14 1 18 5 17 4
using cycles of length 13 and cycling
within the two subsets of blocks 1-13 and
14-26. Each position within blocks
contains a replication, and each initial
block corresponds to three replications.
= 20
Solution 2: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design M26, Solution 2
Groups: (13,2)
(Plan continued on next page)
116
\n--- PAGE 00000129 ---\nTABLE V. Singular group divisible designs – Continued
Plan:
1
10
8
14
6
12
422-23
14
21
219
15
22
1
5
19 14
25
13
26
B42818
3
16
Plan:
1
16
17
14
11
24
7
20
14
1
2
15
4
17
7
20
8
21
533
15
2
11
24
13
26
15
2
23
10
22
9
3
16
17
4
5
18
3
16
16
3
19
11 24
16
3
25
12
7
20
4
17
19
6 21
24
11
20 7
17
4
12
18
9
26
523
25
22
18
325
12
13 21
8 18
19
6
24 11
20
21
22
789
10
23
9
26
PURE
23
10
13
52265322222222
18
15
12
25
19
15
2
12367
48391
13
26
10
23
9
22
21
16
3
8
5 20
8 23
17
19 6
20
7
5
10
12356
16
∞3THO
2 17 3 18
4 19 8 23 12 27
5 20 10 25 15 30
6 21 11 26 13 28
7 22 9 24 14 29
16 4 19 5 20
17 8 23 10 25
18 13
6 21
28
14 29
24 15 30
7 22 11 26 12 27
2 17 9
1 16 6 21 7 22
24 11 26
3 18 12 27 15 30
14 29
13 28
4 19 10 25
8 23 9 24
17 13 28 15 30
3 18
4 19 7 22
20 11 26 14 29
6 21 10 25 12 27
13
12
24
11
1
16
10 25 11 26
2 17
12 27
14 29
3 18 5 20
4 19
9
24
6 21
13 28
Design S45:
v = 27, r =
8,
k = 6,
b= 36
7 22
8 23 15 30
m= 9, n = 3,
λ₁ = 8,
λ₂ = 1
1 16
=
36
12 27 13 28
2 17 5 20 7 22
C₁ =
=
1, c2=-8/27, H= 25/2, A
E, 1.00, E₂ = .79, E = .81
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design T80
Groups: (9,3)
Plan:
= = 28
Cyclically develop the four initial blocks
1 10 19 2 11 20
1 10 19
3 12 21
1 10 19
4 13 22
1 10 19 5 14 23
using cycles of length 9 and cycling
within the three subsets of treatments
1-9, 10-18, and 19-27. The three left-
most positions within blocks contain four
replications, and each initial block
provides two replications.
3 18
4 19
6 21
9 24
10 25
11
26
15 30
8 23
14 29
16
14 29
15 30
17
4 19
6 21
18
8 23
11 26
5 20
12357
1722
9 24 12 27
7 22 10 25 13 28
Note: There exist 80 distinct plans for this
design. There are 7 distinct resolvable
solutions among the 80, and one of them
provides the basic design for the plan
presented here. The 80 distinct solutions
depend on the work of Cole, White and
Cummings (1925) and the 7 resolvable
solutions depend on results of Cole (1922).
Design S46:
v = 30, r = 7,
k = 6,
b= 35
Design S47:
m 15, n= 2,
λ₁
-
7,
2
= 1
v = 30, r = 9, k = 6,
m 10, n= 3, λ₁
b =
45
=
9,
2
= 1
C₁ = 1, c₂ = 0,
H= 12, A = 35
E, 1.00, E, .83, E = .84
=
2
Solution: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design M29
Groups: (15,2)
= = 28
c₁ = 1, c₂ = −1/3, H= 14, A = 45
E, 1.00, E2.79, E = .80
= 36
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design T88
Groups: (10,3)
(Plan continued on next page)
117
\n--- PAGE 00000130 ---\nTABLE V. Singular group divisible designs - Continued
Plan: In a resolvable plan for the combinatorially
λ,
=
k= 6, b= 55
10, A2 = 1
unique BIB design (10,45,9,2,1) replace
each treatment with a groups of n = 3
distinct treatments given by the groups of
the association scheme (10,3) of Table II.
Design S48:
v = 33, r = 10,
m 11, n = 3,
c₁ = 1, c₂-4/11, H31/2, A = 55
E, 1.00, E,= .79, E= .80
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 45
Dual: Design T98
Groups: (11,3)
Plan:
In a 2-resolvable, 5 replications per
column arrangement for the combinatorially
unique BIB design (11,55,10,2,1) replace
each treatment with a group of n
treatments given by the groups of the
association scheme (11,3) of Table II.
=
€ 3 distinct
Design S49:
v = 38, r =
m 19, n= 2,
9,
k = 6,
b
λ₁
=
9,
2
Solution:
Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: A degenerate design
Dual:
The BIB design (5,10,8,4,6), Roy and Laha
(1956)
Groups: (5,2)
Plan: 1 6
2
3 8
4 9
5
10
34512
5 10
10
78986
23451
17
8
9
5 10
82678
45123
∞9667
Design S52:
v = 10,
r =
8,
k
m= 5, n = 2,
8,
A₁ = 8,
=
=
λ₂
=
=
57
1
c₁ =
1, c₂ = 23/30, H= 31/2, A = 60
E= 1.00, E,= .97, E= .97
Solution: Unique; 4-resolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Truly self dual
Groups: (5,2)
Plan:
c₁ = 1, c₂ = -1/19, H= 46/3, A = 57
E, 1.00, E₂ = .83, E= .83
Solution: Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design M35
Groups: (19,2)
= = 48
Plan: In a 3-resolvable, 3 replications per
column arrangement for the BIB design
(19,57,9,3,1) replace each treatment with
a group of n =
2 distinct treatments given
by the groups of the association scheme
(19,2) of Table II.
34512
78906
10
5 10
2
2
23451
67899
12345
23451
78986
2
12345
3
4
10
10
5
67890
3
10
89667
45123
92076
10
34512
89667
10
8
b= 10
6
=
10
92678
45123
70
b= 70
10, A₂ = 1
Design S53:
с
=
v = 12,
m 3,
r = 2,
n = 4,
k = 8,
b=3
=
λ₁ 2, λ. = 1
1 1, c,= 5/12, H= 7/2, ▲ = 3
E, 1.00, E₂ = .92, E= .94
=
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual:
The BIB design (3,12,8,2,4), Roy and Laha
(1956)
Groups: (3,4)
Design S50:
v = 42, r =
10,
k = 6,
m= 21, n = 2,
λι
-
c₁ = 1, c₂ = -1/14, H= 17, A
E, 1.00, E,= .82, E = .83
=
Solution: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 60
Dual: Design M40
Groups: (21,2)
Plan: In a resolvable plan for the BIB design
(21,70,10,3,1) replace each treatment
with a group of n = 2 distinct treatments
given by the groups of the association
scheme (21,2) of Table II.
Design S51:
v = 10, r = 4,
m= 5,
n = 2,
k
-
8,
b= 5
A₁ 4,
=
λ2
= 3
c₁ =
E,
1, c,= 23/30, H= 31/4, A = 15
1.00, E,= .97, E = .97
Plan: 1
2
3
456
789
10
11
12
564
231
11
12
20
897
7 10
=
=
8,
4,
b=6
λ2 2
=
Design S54:
v = 12, r = 4,
k
m= 3, n = 4,
λ₁
C₁ =
=
12
1, c₂ = 5/12, H= 7, A =
E, 1.00, E,= .92, E= .94
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Design S4
Groups: (3,4)
Plan:
Duplicate the plan of $53.
118
\n--- PAGE 00000131 ---\nTABLE V.
Singular group divisible designs - Continued
Design S55:
v = 12,
r = 6,
MF 3,
n = 4,
k= 8,
λ₁ 6,
b = 9
Design S59:
v = 14,
r = 4,
k = 8,
b= 7
=
λε
= 3
m= 7,
n = 2,
λ₁ 4,
=
A₂ = 2
C₁ =
E,
=
1, c, 5/12, H= 21/2, A = 27
1.00, E,
.92, E = .94
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Design S24
Groups: (3,4)
Plan: Repeat the plan of S53 three times.
c₁ = 1, c,= 1/2, H= 15/2, A = 14
E, 1.00, E,= .93, E = .94
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design S32
Dual:
The true duplicate solution for the BIB
design (7,14,8,4,4), Roy and Laha (1956)
Groups: (7,2)
Plan: 7 14
Design S56: v = 12,
m= 3,
r = 8,
n = 4,
k = 8,
λ₁
b= 12
1 8 7 14
=
8,
2
= 4
2 9
3 10
=
= 48
4 11 3 10
67123
13 5 12 3 10
6
8
7 14
9
2
23489
4 11
5 12
6 13
7 14
5 12
6 13
4 11
3 10
1
8
5 12
4
11
2
9
CI 1, c₂= 5/12, H= 14, A =
E, 1.00, E, .92, E= .94
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Truly self dual
Groups: (3,4)
Plan:
Repeat the plan of S53 four times and
rearrange treatments within blocks to pro-
vide a replication in each position within
the blocks.
Design $57:
=
v = 12, r = 10, k = 8,
n = 4,
m= 3,
1, c, 5/12, H= 35/2, A = 75
E, 1.00, E,= .92, E= .94
Complement: A disconnected design
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Dual: Design S103
Groups: (3,4)
b= 15
Design S60:
v = 14,
r = 8,
n = 2,
k = 8,
b= 14
A₁
= 8,
λ2
= 4
m= 7,
=3
c₁ = 1, c,= 1/2, H= 15, A 56
E,= 1.00, E,= .93, E = .94
Solution 1: Nonunique; 4-resolvable
Complement: Design S33, Solution 1
Dual: Truly self dual
Groups: (7,2)
7123456
6712345
23489E
5671234
λ,
=
10, A2 = 5
Plan:
14
13
12
8
14
13
9
8
14
10
9
11
10
12
11
10 1 8
13
5 12
34567A2
10
11
12
13
14
2 9
Plan: Repeat the plan of S53 five times.
14
8
Design S58: v = 12, r = 10,
k = 8,
b= 15
9
m= 6,
n = 2,
λ,
=
10, A2
= 6
10
11
= 90
12
13
7123456
13
14
8
9
10
11
6712345
10
567123
23489
5 10
12
13
12 5 11 4
14
8
9
3456712
PA234∞ a
c₁ = 1, c,= 11/18, H= 19, ▲
1.00, E, .95, E = .95
E,
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design S11
Dual: Design T93
Groups: (6,2)
Plan:
88∞∞∞~~~~~~~~~~
32.22211-------
1 7
6 12
9 4
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
44333333222222
10
4 10
9
9
9
6 12
9
9
9
8
8
8
8
8
8
5554◄◄✔✔−5-4333
5 11 6 12
11 6 12
11 6 12
4 10
6 12
4
10
5 11
10 5 11
11
10
6 12
10 5 11
11 6 12
4 10 6 12
10 5 11
9
6 12
9 5 11
9
4 10
Solution 2:
Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Design S33, Solution 2
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (7,2)
Plan: Form blocks which are the complements of
those of design S33, Solution 2.
Solution 3:
Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Design S33, Solution 3
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (7,2)
(Plan continued on next page)
119
\n--- PAGE 00000132 ---\nTABLE V. Singular group divisible designs – -
Continued
Solution 1:
Plan:
Form blocks which are the complements of
those of design S33, Solution 3.
Solution 4:
Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Design S33, Solution 4
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3, 4
Groups: (7,2)
Plan: Form blocks which are the complements of
those of design S33, Solution 4.
Design S61:
v = 16, r = 3,
n = 4,
m= 4,
k = 8,
b = 6
λ₁
=
3,
A2 1
=
CI
= 1, c₂= 1/8, H= 5, ▲ = 6
E, 1.00, E, .89, E = .91
Solution: Unique; affine resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Design SR21, Solution 1
Groups: (4,4)
Plan:
13
3
2
57
9 13 2 6 10 14
11
11
33
15 4
9 13
34
34
10 14
56
12
96
36
12
78
8 12 16
7 11
15
12 16
8 12 16
3
7
11 15
13 4
34
2 6 10 14
Nonunique; affine resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Design SR82, Solution 1
Groups: (8,2)
Plan: 1 9
23
10 4 12
6 14
=
8 16 3 11
2 10 3 11
8 16 4 12
11 4 12
==
38
8 16 5 13
5 13
7 15
75
53
15
13
94
16
14
6 14 2 10
49
19
4 12 5 13 7 15
6 14 2 10
7 15
31
11
9
8 16
5 13
45
19
6 14
13
11
9 4 12
42
21
10
8 16 7 15 3 11
6 14
8 16
71
15 2 10
39
4 12
31
53
13
11
7 15 1 9 3 11 6 14
ao
8 16 2 10
H3
35
13 4 12
Solution 2: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (8,2)
Design S62:
v = 16,
m= 4,
r = = 6,
n= 4,
k = 8,
λ₁ = 6,
b= 12
λ₂
= 2
24
=
= 1/8, H= 10, A
C₁ =
1,
C₂ =
E, 1.00, E,= .89, E = .91
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (4,4)
Plan:
2
57
5
9 13
11
15
24
34
34
9 13
10 14 4
9 13
10 14
6 10 14
8 12 16
7 11 15
8 12 16
8 12 16
13
96
36
12
56
12
24
34
96
56
22
56
12
78
34
12
43
6
43
34
13
411
02
10 14
8 12 16
11 15
12 16
8 12
16
3 7 11 15
3
1
7
11 15
9 13
11
15
13
57
6 10 14
5 9 13
6 10 14
Design S63:
=
v = 16, r = 7,
m= 8, n = 2,
Ci 1, c2= 5/12, H= 13,
k = 8,
A₁ 7,
=
A 42
E,= 1.00, E₂ = .92, E = .93
=
b= 14
λε 3
=
Plan: 1 9 2 10
3 11
5 13
2 10 3 11
4 12
6 14
3 11
4 12
5 13
7 15
4 12
5 13
6 14
1 9
5 13
6 14
7 15
2 10
6
14
7 15
1 9
3
11
7 15
1 9
2 10
4 12
8 16
2 10
3 11
5 13
8 16
3 11
4 12
6 14
8 16
4 12
5 13
7 15
8 16
5 13
6 14
1 9
8 16
6 14
8 16 7 15
8 16 1 9
712
15 2 10
Solution 3:
9 3 11
2 10 4 12
Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (8,2)
Plan: 1 9 2 10
9666
3 11 4 12
33
56
233
11 5 13
1
9
2 10
1
9
2 10 6 14 7 15
1
9
3 11 7 15
8 16
1
4 12
5 13
6 14
1
4 12
6 14
8 16
1
5 13 7 15
8 16
2 10
2 10 3 11
4 12
6 14
8 16
5 13
7 15
2 10 4 12
7 15
8 16
233 3
2 10 5 13
6 14
8 16
11 4 12
5 13
8 16
11
4 12
6 14
7 15
3 11
5 13
6 14 7 15
(Plan continued on next page)
120
\n--- PAGE 00000133 ---\nTABLE V. Singular group divisible designs - Continued
Solution 4: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (8,2)
Plan:
1
10
2 11
6
15
32
10
3 12
1 10 2 11
7
16
8 17
5
14
10 1
6
78
Plan: 1 9
1 9
1
1 9
1
1
aaaaaa
2
10
3 11
4
12
15
6 10
1 12
2 10
3 11
5
13
9 18
13 10
3 12 7 16
15 8 17 13
9
8
4521
2106
11
10
3419487
9
2
10
6 14
7 15
18 9
14 16
7
10 1
3
11
6
14
8 16
2 11 12
3 17
18 9
9
4 12
5
13
6 14
4 13
2
9
18
14 5
9
4
12
7
15
8
16
16 7
9
18
11
2
6 15
1
9
5 13
7
15
8 16
11 2
7
16
4
13
3 12
2 10 3
11
7
15
8 16
8
17
15
6
5
14 11
22
2 10
4 12
5
13
7 15
3
12 14 5
18
9 17 8
2 10
4 12
6
14
8
16
13
2 10
5 13
6 14
8
16
12
3 11
4 12
5
13
8 16
17
8 16
3 11
4 12
6
14
7 15
14
478
18 9 15
13 4 14 5 15
16
6 15 12
5 17 8 13 4
327
636
3 11
5 13
6 14
7 15
Design S64:
v = 16,
r = 9,
k
= 8,
m= 4,
n = 4,
λ₁
=
9,
b= 18
=
λ2 3
Solution 3:
Complement: Design S105, Solution 3
Nonunique; nonresolvable
Dual: Irregular
1, c,
=
54
1/8, H= 15, A
E,= 1.00, E,= .89, E = .91
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (4,4)
Plan: Repeat the plan of S61 three times.
8 17
9 18
8
Groups: (9,2)
Plan: 1 10 2 11 6 15 9
320
18
10 3 12
5
14
17
1 10 4
13
6
15
14 7 16
10
10 1
11
2
4 13 14 5
18
9 10
1
12 3 7 16
15
6
3
12 10
2
11
16 8
17
10
Design S65: v = 18, r = 8,
k = 8,
b= 18
4
13
16
7
2
11
m= 9, n = 2,
A₁
=
8,
2
= 3
7
16
9
18 5
14
11
2
17
8 13
C₁ =
5
14
12
3
11
2
3
12
18 9
17
12
3 6
15 16
87
8
11
30326
518
13 4
1
12
11
15
6
2
17
Solution 1:
Nonunique; 4-resolvable
13
4 14 5
18
12
17
16
14
875
13 4
14
5 16
4 13 15 6 18
5 15 6 18 9 17
9
8
1, c₂ = 19/54, H= 59/4, ▲ = 54
E, 1.00, E,
.92, E= .92
Complement: Design S105, Solution 1
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups: (9,2)
Plan: Cyclically develop the two initial blocks
1 10 2 11 3 12 5 14
10 1 13 4 14 5 17 8
using cycles of length 9 and cycling within
the two subsets of treatments 1-9 and
10-18. Each position within blocks
contains a replication, and each initial
block provides four replications.
Solution 2: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design S105, Solution 2
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (9,2)
Solution 4:
Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design S105, Solution 4
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (9,2)
427
Plan: 1 10
2 11
13
8 17
1 10
11
6
15
9
18 1 10
4
13 7
16
9 18
10
1
3
12
6 15 16
57216
11
461
10
9
18
10
1
5
14 3
17 8
6
15
10
4
5
14
17
3 12 10
2
11 4
13
12 3 15
14
5 11
18 9 17
2 8
8
17
6
11
2
12
7231653
7
13
16
15
12
47632
523
14
79546
68435
16 12 3 13
11 2 5 14 7 16 9
16 7 14
4
11
2
18
8
17
18 9 15 6 17
8
5
18 9
13
13 4 17 8 18
12 15 6 16
87
14
95
121
\n--- PAGE 00000134 ---\nTABLE V. Singular group divisible designs - Continued
12345
c₁ = 1, c₂-1/20, H= 13/2, A
E,= 1.00, E,= .87, E = .89
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, k
Dual: Design T31
Groups: (5,4)
Plan:
= €12
Design S66:
m= 5,
v = 20, r = 4,
n = 4,
k = 8,
λ₁ 4,
=
A2
b= 10
= 1
= 10
Plan:
1 11
2 12
3 13
4 14
5 15
1 11
6 16
10 20
7 17
8 18
2 12
5 15
3 13
6 16
7 17
9 19
4
14 10 20
9 19
8 18
2 12 6 16
8 18
9 19
9 19 10 20
1 11
7 17
3 13
8 18
5 15
10 20
6 16
5 15
4 14
7 17
4 14
9 19
3
13
5 15
7 17
8 18
1 11
4 14
6 11 16
7 12
17
8
13
18
9 14
19
5 10 15 20
78906
23451
14 19
5 10 15 20
6 11 16
13 18
7 12 17
13 18
10 20 7 17
2 12
3 13
2 12
4 14
10 20
6 16
1 11
3 13
6 16
8 18
5 15 9 19 1 11
2 12
12345
6 11 16
7 12 17
8 13 18
9 14 19
34512
4
5 10
15
20
2
89667
14 19
5 10 15 20
11 16
7 12 17
Solution 3: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, k
= 12
Dual: Design T64, Solution 3
Groups: (10,2)
Plan: 1 11 2 12 3 13 4 14
8 18 10
2220
31
1 11 6 16
2 12 9 19
Design S67:
v = 20,
m= 10,
r = 6,
k = 8,
n= 2,
λ₁
=
6,
=
30
b= 15
λ2
= 2
=
C1 1, c₂- 3/10, H= 11, A:
1.00, E₂ = .91, E= .91
E,
Solution 1: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, k
= 12
Dual: Design T64, Solution 1
Groups: (10,2)
Plan: 1 11 4 14
7 17
10 20
5 15 9 19
13
4 14
7
17 6 16
3 13 9 19
5 15 8 18
4 14
5 15
7 17
6 16
9 19
4 14
2 12
5 15
8 18
10 20
5 15
10 20
7 17 8 18
3 13 10 20
1 11 4 14
3 13 6 16
9 19 2 12
8 18
9 19
9 19 10 20
1 11
7 17
1 11
3 13
5 15
7 17
7 17
8 18
2 12
4 14
4 14
6 16
3 13
10 20
2
12
5 15
1 11 6 16
3 13
7 17
6
16
8 18
2 12
6 16
1
11
9 19
8 18 10 20
2 12
5 15
Design S68:
v = 20,
4 14
2 12
8 18
6
16
m= 5,
r = 8,
n = 4, λ₁₂
k = 8,
=
8,
λε
-
b= 20
220
7 17
9 19
5 15
2 12
5 15
8 18
3 13
1 11
6 16
3 13
9
19 10 20
2 12
1 11
10 20
3 13
9 19 10 20
8 18
7 17
1 11
6 16
7 17
5 15
10 20
5 15
4 14
6 16
c₁ =
1, c₂ = −1/20, H= 13, ▲ = 40
E, 1.00, E₂ = .87, E= .89
=
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
= 12
4 14
8 18
1 11
9 19
Groups: (5,4)
3 13 7 17 2 12 4
14
Plan:
Solution 2: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, k
Dual: Design T64, Solution 2
Groups: (10,2)
= 12
12345
10
2345
67899
11
16
12
17
13
18
15
20
73229
23451
17
18
19
20
10
16
1
6
7896
2345-
(Plan continued on next page)
122
\n--- PAGE 00000135 ---\nTABLE V. Singular group divisible designs - Continued
Design S71:
v = 26, r = 4,
k = 8,
b= 13
m= 13, n= 2,
λι
= 4,
λ2
= 1
11
16
12345
19
17822
12345
67899
18
19
20
16
34512
B9267
10
34512
89667
11
17
10
17
20
23451
14
78926
19
20
11 16
12345
67890
12345
78900
10
23451
11
16
17
18
19
6
10
20
34512
B9267
18
19
20
16
17
11 16
17
19
12345
20 5
12345
67899
10
11
7
10
34512
∞968
1, c₂ = 5/26, H= 29/4, ▲ = 13
E, 1.00, E, .90, E= .90
Solution:
=
Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, k
= 18
Dual: True duplicate solution for the BIB design
(13,26,8,4,2), Roy and Laha (1956)
Groups: (13,2)
Plan:
Cyclically develop the initial block
1 14 2 15 4 17 10 23
using cycles of length 13 and cycling
within the two subsets of treatments 1-13
and 14-26. Counting from the left (or
right) each pair of positions within
blocks contains a replication.
Design S69:
v = 24,
r =
5,
k
m= 6,
n = 4,
λ₁
=
15
c₁ = 1, c₂ = −1/6, H= 8, ▲ -
E, 1.00, E, .86, E= .87
=
= 16
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, k
Dual: Design T51
Groups: (6,4)
=
=
8,
5,
b= 15
A2
=
1
Plan: 1 7 13 19
2
8 14 20
3 9 15 21
4
10 16 22
5 11 17 23 6
12 18 24
124
365
7 13 19
8 14 20
4 10 16 22
9 15 21
12 18 24
5 11 17 23
7 13 19
4 10 16 22
8 14 20
5 11 17 23
9 15 21
6 12 18 24
13 19
5 11 17 23
14 20
3 9 15 21
123
780
124
4 10 16 22
789
123
6 12 18 24
13 19 6 12 18 24
14 20 4 10
16 22
15 21 5 11 17 23
Design S70:
=
v = 24, r = 10,
n= 6,
n = 4,
k = 8,
X₂
=
10, A2
=
b= 30
32
60
1, c₂= -1/6, H= 16, A
E, 1.00, E₂ = .86, E= .87
Solution:
=
Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 20
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (6,4)
Design S72:
v = 26, r = 8,
k
=
m 13, n = 2,
λ₁
=
8,
8,
b= 26
2
= 2
=
52
CI
E,
-
1, c₂ = 5/26, H= 29/2, A
1.00, E₂ = .90, E= .90
2
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 18
Dual: Truly self dual
Groups: (13,2)
Plan:
Cyclically develop the two initial blocks
1 14 2 15 4 17 10 23
14 1 15 2 17 4 23 10
using cycles of length 13 and cycling
within two subsets of treatments 1-13 and
14-26. Each position within blocks contains
a replication, and each initial block provides
four replications.
Solution 2:
Nonunique; 4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 18
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (13,2)
Plan: 13
2367
2345
4567
243444
15
17
10
2 15
16
18
11
3 16
17
19
12
25
4 17
18
20
14
5 18 6
19
8
21 13 26
6
19
20
7
8
21
9
10
11
12
12 25
1 14
2222224
20
8
21
9 22 11
23
TIRIU
10
23
9012
22
15
23
3
16
24
25
11 24
1
14
12 25
1 14
13
26
323
26
15
16 9
456789
17
18
6
20
8 21
82222
19
Plan:
Duplicate the plan of S69.
(Plan continued on next page)
123
\n--- PAGE 00000136 ---\nTABLE V. Singular group divisible designs - Continued
15
14
54
16
17
18 5 19
21
22222222
19 6
20
21345678
2
14 1 17
16 3 18
3
17 4 19
4
18
1345
10
11
6
25
12
5
20
7
26
13
21
8
15
2
20 7
22
9
1
8
9
23
10
24 11
25 12
26 13
D123
2222225
21
8
23
10
16
3
9
24
11
17
4
23 10 25
24
26
15
P1232
18
5
11 26
19
6
15
20
7
14
21
8
16
9
45
23213
223244222
Plan: Cyclically develop the three initial blocks
1 8 15 22 2 9 16 23
1
1
8 15 22 3 10 17 24
8 15 22 4 11 18 25
using cycles of length 7 and cycling within
the four subsets of treatments 1-7, 8-14,
15-21 and 22-28. The four positions within
columns at the left (right) contain three
replications, and each initial block provides
two replications.
Design S74:
v = 32, r = 5, k = 8,
m= 16, n= 2, λ₁ = 5,
b=20
λg
= 1
Solution 3: Nonunique; 4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r =18
Dual: Irregular
c₁ = 1, c₂ = 1/8, H= 9, ▲
= 20
E, 1.00, E,= .89, E= .89
Groups: (13,2)
Plan: 13 26 2 15
2
3
4
៨៩៦៩
15 3
16
16
17
17
18
4567
17 10
18
19
5
18
6
19 8
21
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
1
22222224
19
20 9
20
8
21 10 23
21
22
11
10
23 12
25
23
11 24 1 14
25
14
213
25 13 26
14
26 3 16 9
222222222E
20
24
2 15 8 21
P1213234567∞a
242424222
23
Solution: Unique; affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 15
Dual: Design SR59, Solution 1
Groups: (16,2)
25
14
2 18
26
7 23
15
12 28
Plan: 16 32 1 17 6 22 11 27
4 20 5 21 13 29
9 25 10 26 3 19
14 30 15 31 8 24
16
17
16 32
2 18
7 23
12 28
18
3 19
5 21
6
22
14 30
19
8 24
10
26
11 27 4 20
20
13 29
15 31
1 17 9 25
16 32
3 19
8
4 20
6 22
18
20
21
26
BEEKBA2222222
15
14
17
16
19
23 10
214356723
14
17 4 18
35
1 16 3 23 10
16 3 19
6
18
20 7 26 13
2222
5 24 11
25 12
19
6
21 8 15
P=232
9 25 11 27
14 30
1 17
24 13 29
7 23 15 31
12 28 5 21
2 18
10 26
16 32
4 20
9 25
14 30
5 21
7 23
8 24 1 17
20
7
21
22 9 14
23
10 26
12
28
10 17
4
15 31
2 18
13 29 6 22
3 19
11 27
8
22
9 24 11 16
3
22224
23
10 25 12 18
24 11 25
25
11 26 13 19 6
12 15 2 20
26 13 14
21
15
2 17
B2222
16 32
5 21
10
26
15 31
6789
6 22
8 24
9 25
2 18
1
11 27
17
13 29
14 30
7 23
3 19
4 20
12 28
Design S73:
v = 28,
IF 7,
r = 6,
n = 4,
k = 8,
λ₁
=
6,
1, c,= -1/4, H= 19/2, A = 21
E, 1.00, E, .85, E= .86
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 15
Dual: Design T68
Groups: (7,4)
b= 21
=
A2 1
Design S75:
v = 32,
IF 8, n = 4,
7,
r = 7,
k = 8,
λ₁
=
28
C₁ = 1, c₂=-5/16, H= 11, A
E, 1.00, E, .84, E= .86
Solution: Unique; resolvable
=
Complement: Not listed, r = 21
Dual: Design T75
Groups: (8,4)
Plan:
b= 28
A2
= 1
In a resolvable plan for the combinatorially
unique BIB design (8,28,7,2,1) replace each
treatment with a group of n = = 4 distinct
treatments given by the groups of the
association scheme (8,4) of Table II.
124
\n--- PAGE 00000137 ---\nTABLE V. Singular group divisible designs - Continued
Design S76:
v = 32, r =
m= 16, n= 2,
10, k = 8,
λ₂
= 10, A2
b= 40
= 2
=
80
Plan:
In the 2-resolvable, 5 replication per
column plan for the combinatorially unique
BIB design (11,55,10,2,1) given by develop-
ing modulo 11 the five initial blocks 1 2,
1 3, 14, 15, 1 6 replace each treatment by
a group of n = 4 distinct treatments given
by the groups of the association scheme
(11,4) of Table II.
=
1, c, 1/8, H= 18, A
E‚= 1.00, E¸= .89, E= .89
Solution: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (16,2)
= 30
Plan: Duplicate the plan of S74.
Remark: It is known to the author that the BIB
design (16,40,10,4,2), on which the
construction of a plan for this design
depends, possesses at least 19 distinct
constructions. Hence the present design
has at least this number of distinct
plans as well.
b= 36
Design S77:
v = 36, r = 8, k = 8,
m= 9,
n = 4, λ₁ = 8,
A2:
= 1
Design S80:
v = 50, r = 8,
m= 25, n= 2,
k = 8,
λ. = 8,
λη
=
b= 50
1
= 50
c1, c2= 1/50, H= 57/4, A
E, 1.00, E2.88, E= .88
=
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 42
Dual: Design M33
Groups: (25,2)
Plan: Cyclically develop the ten initial blocks
1 26 6 31 10 35 17 42
c₁ = 1, c₂ = -13/36, H= 25/2, A = 36
E= 1.00, E2.84, E= .85
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design T81
Groups: (9,4)
Plan:
= = 28
In the 2-resolvable plan for the
combinatorially unique BIB design (9,36,8,
2,1) replace each treatment with a group
of n = 4 distinct treatments given by the
groups of the association scheme (9,4) of
Table II.
6 31 11 36
15 40 22 47
11 36 16 41
20 45 2 27
16 41 21
21 46 1
26 1 39
31 6 44 19 38
36 11 49
41 16 29
46
26
14 33
25 50 7 32
5 30 12 37
8 36 11
13 41 16
24 43
4 48
18 46 21
23 26 1
46 21 34 9 28 3 31 6
using cycles of length 5 and cycling within
the ten subsets of treatments 1-5, 6-10,
11-15, 16-20, 21-25, 26-30, 31-35, 36-40,
41-45 and 46-50. Then each position within
blocks contains one replication.
Design S81:
Design S78:
v = 40, r = 9, k = 8,
m 10, n= 4, λ,
b = 45
v = 56, r = 9,
m= 28, n = 2,
k = 8,
λ₁ = 9,
b= 63
λε
= 1
=
9,
λ2
= 1
= 45
c₁ = 1, c₂ = −2/5, H= 14, ▲ ·
E= 1.00, E2.83, E = .84
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 36
Dual: Design T89
Groups: (10,4)
Plan:
In a resolvable plan for the
combinatorially unique BIB design (10,45,
9,2,1) replace each treatment by a group
of n = 4 distinct treatments given by the
groups of the association scheme (10,4) of
Table II.
Design S79:
v = 44, r = 10, k = 8,
m 11, n = 4,
λ₁
=
10, A2
b= 55
= 1
=
55
c₁ = 1, c₂-19/44, H= 31/2, A
E, 1.00, E,= .83, E= .84
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 45
Dual: Design T99
Groups: (11,4)
CI 1, c₂ = 0, H= 16, A = 63
E= 1.00, E₂ = .88, E= .88
Solution: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 54
Dual: Design M37
Groups: (28,2)
Plan: In a resolvable plan for the BIB design
(28,63,9,4,1) replace each treatment with
a group of n = 2 distinct treatments given
by the groups of the association scheme
(28,2) of Table II. The solutions for
the BIB design (28,63,9,4,1) by Bose (1939)
and Seiden (1963b) (or Hanani (1961)) are
nonisomorphic.
125
\n--- PAGE 00000138 ---\nTABLE V. Singular group divisible designs-Continued
Design S82:
v = 12,
r = 3,
k = 9,
m= 4,
n = 3,
λ₁
=
= 3,
b= 4
A₂ = 2
1, c,
2/3, H= 17/3, A = 8
E, 1.00, E,= .96, E= .97
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: The BIB design (4,12,9,3,6), Roy and Laha
(1956)
Groups: (4,3)
Solution: Unique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Design S35
Dual: Design T59
Groups: (5,3)
Plan:
12345
6 11
7 12
8 13
23451
7 12
8 13
9 14
9 14 5 10 15
8 13
9 14
5 10 15
34512
6 11
6 11 2 7 12
Plan: 1 5 9
2
6
10
2
6 10
3
7
11
3
7 11
4
8
12
4
8
12
5
29
3412
7 11
8 12
5 9
6
10
12345
5 10 15
6 11
7 12
345
8 13
8 13
9 14
5 10 15
9 14
10 15
1 6 11
2 7 12
45123
9 14
5 10 15
6 11
7 12
8 13
Design S83:
V= 12,
r = 6,
m= 4,
n = 3,
k = 9,
A₁ 6,
b= 8
Design S86:
v 18,
r
5,
k = 9,
=
λ2
=
m= 6, n = 3,
A₁
=
= 5,
b= 10
A₂ = 2
=
c, 1, c, 2/3, H= 34/3, ▲
E, 1.00, E,= .96, E= .97
2
=
32
Solution: Unique; 3-resolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Design S20
Groups: (4,3)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of S82.
b= 12
c₁ = 1, c,= 1/3, H= 9, A = 20
E, 1.00, E,= .92, E= .93
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Design T47
Groups: (6,3)
Plan: 1 7 13
223
8 14
8 14
3
9 15
4 10 16
6
12 18
9 15
4 10 16
5 11 17
Design S84:
v = 12, r = 9,
k=9,
m= 4, n = 3,
λ₁
=
= 9,
λ = 6
=
c₁ = 1, c, 2/3, H= 17, ▲ = 72
-
E, 1.00, E,= .96, E= .97
Solution: Unique; 3-resolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Truly self dual
Groups: (4,3)
Plan:
1
7 13
1 7 13
1
7 13
1
7 13
5 11 17
6
12 18
2
8 14
3 9 15
5 11 17
2
8 14
4
10 16
6 12 18
2
8 14
5 11 17
6
12 18
3
9 15
4 10 16
5 11 17
3
9 15
4
10 16
6 12 18
Design S87:
y= 18, r = 10, k = 9,
m= 6, n = 3,
b= 20
A,
=
10, λε
= 4
10
11
12
10 2
11
11
11
12
10
12 4
3412
1234
2
3
5678
9
10
11
8 12
10
9 2
2290
7856
3412
0229
6885
2341
PO42
5678
11 4
12
=2°0
7856
2341
129
6785
1234
200
6785
2341
12
429
5678
1234
PONE
10
11
12
10
1
6 11
12
5 10
9
k = 9,
λ₁
-
Design S85:
=
1, c₂
=
v = 15, r = 6,
n 5, n = 3,
7/15, H= 11, A = 30
E, 1.00, E,= .94, E= .95
10
9 1
7856
3412
6, λ2
b=
2
10
= 3
=
C₁ = 1, c₂= 1/3, H= 18, ▲ 80
E,
1.00, E,= .92, E= .93
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
5-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual:
A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (6,3)
Plan:
Duplicate the plan of S86.
Solution 2:
Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: A D(3)
Groups: (6,3)
Plan: 1 7 13 4 10 16 5 11 17
8 14 3
2
9 15 6 12 18
(Plan continued on next page)
126
\n--- PAGE 00000139 ---\nTABLE V. Singular group divisible designs -
– Continued
1
7 13
6
12 18
23
2
8
14
5
11 17
3 9 15
4 10 16
2
8 14
6 12 18
34
9 15
4 10 16
36
9
15
4
10 16
6 12 18
5
11 17
4 10 16
6 12 18
51
5 11 17
7 13
5 11 17
6
24
18
8
14
12 18 4 10 16
15
12
32
31
41
7 13
11
8 14
7 13
9 15
8 14
9 15
7 13
137
Plan:
1
8 15
2
9
16
4 11 18
2
9 16
3 10 17
5 12 19
3 10 17
4 11 18
6 13 20
4 11 18
5 12 19
7
14 21
5 12 19 6 13 20
1
8 15
6 13 20
7
14 21
2134
9 16
8 15
71
13
7
14 21
2 9 16
8 15
3
10 17
10 17
4 11 18
3 10 17
4 11 18
5 12 19
8 15
4 11 18
5 12 19
6
13 20
7 14 21
5 12 19
6 13
20
2 9 16
6 13 20
7
14 21
1 8 15
7 14 21 2 9 16
3 10 17
34
78
12
26
13
35
9 15
8 14 5 11 17 6
37
4 10
16
12 18
8 14
4 10 16
11
6 12 18 1 7 13
173
19
53
17
9
15
3 9 15
6 12 18 2
52
5 11 17 1 7
13
8 14
4 10 16
31
4 10 16
6 12 18
33
79
13
13 2 8 14
9 15
17
3 10 17
5 11
4 11 18
5 12 19
Solution 3: Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, k
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (7,3)
Plan: 1 8 15
2 9 16
23456
= €12
9 16
10 17
4 11 18
4 11 18
5 12 19
6 13 20
5 12 19
7 14 21
6 13 20
Design S88:
v = 21,
m= 7,
r = 3,
n = 3,
k = 9,
b= 7
7 14 21
13 20
7 14 21
1 8 15
1 8 15
2
9 16
3 10 17
A₁
=
3,
λ=
= 1
c₁ = 1, c,= 5/21, H= 16/3, ▲ = 7
E, 1.00, E,= .91, E= .92
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, k = 12
Dual: The true triplicate solution for the BIB
design (7,21,9,3,3), Roy and Laha (1956)
Groups: (7,3)
21
9 16
8 15
14
8 15
3
10 17
4 11 18
4 11 18
3 10 17
5 12 19
6 13 20
3 10 17
5 12 19
7 14 21
5 12 19
6
13 20
2
9 16
6 13 20
7
14 21
7 14 21
2 9 16
1
8 15
4 11 18
Plan: 1 8 15
2 9 16
4 11 18
2 9 16
3 10 17
3 10 17
4 11
5 12 19
18
6 13 20
4 11 18
5 12 19
7
14 21
5 12 19
6
13 20
1 8 15
6 13 20
7
14 21
2 9 16
7
14 21
1
8 15
3 10 17
Design S89:
v = 21,
r =
6,
k = 9,
m= 7,
n = 3,
λ₁ 6,
=
=
b= 14
λε 2
c₁ = 1, c₂ = 5/21, H= 32/3, ▲ = 28
E, 1.00, E,= .91, E= .92
Solution 1:
Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, k = 12
Dual: Design S34
Groups: (7,3)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of S88.
Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Solution 2:
Complement: Not listed, k
= = 12
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (7,3)
Solution 4:
Nonunique; 3-resolvable
- 12
Complement: Not listed, k
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups: (7,3)
Plan: 1
2
8 15
9 16
2 9 16
4 11 18
3 10 17
5 12 19
3 10 17
4 11 18
4 11 18
5 12 19
6 13 20
7 14 21
5 12 19
6 13 20
6 13 20
7 14 21
7 14 21
1 8 15
123
8 15
9 16
3 10 17
2
9 16
1
8 15
4 11 18
143
1
8 15
4 11 18
10 17
3 10 17
6 13 20
5 12 19
3 10 17
6 13 20
7 14 21
6 13 20
5 12 19
2
5 12 19
7 14 21
7 14 21
2
9 16
1 8 15
9 16
4 11 18
127
\n--- PAGE 00000140 ---\nTABLE V. Singular group divisible designs - Continued
Design S90:
V= 21, r = 9,
m= 7,
n = 3,
k = 9,
λ₁ = 9,
b = 21
λε 3
=
c1, c2= 5/21, H= 16, ▲ = 63
E, 1.00, E₂ = .91, E= .92
Solution 1:
Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: Self dual
Groups: (7,3)
Plan:
Repeat the plan of S88 three times and
rearrange the treatments within blocks so
as to provide a replication for each
position within blocks.
Solution 2:
Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= : 12
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups: (7,3)
Plan:
Cyclically develop the three initial blocks
1 8 15 3 10 17 6 13 20
8 15 1 11 18
15
1 8
4 12 19 5
16 2 9 21 7 14
using cycles of length 7 and cycling
within the three subsets of treatments 1-7,
8-14, and 15-21. Each position within blocks
contains a replication, and each initial
block provides three replications.
Solution 3: Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (7,3)
Plan:
Design S91:
V= 27, r =
m= 9,
4,
k = 9,
b= 12
n= 3,
λ = 4,
λ2 = 1
Ci
1, c2
=
E,
-
1/9, H= 7, A = 12
1.00, E2 .90, E= .91
Solution: Unique; affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, k
= 18
Dual: Design SR43, Solution 1
Groups: (9,3)
Plan: 1 10 19 4 13 22
2 11 20
3 12 21
258
11 20
14 23
8 17 26
3 12 21
6 15 24
9 18 27
5 14 23
36
399
7 16 25
8 17 26
15 24 9 18 27
12 21
6
15 24
147
258
477
582
2235
030
13 22
16 25
18 27 1 10 19
10 19
13
16
11 20
14 23
17 26
2 11 20
15 24
69
1
10 19
4
13 22
14 23
18 27
7 16
25 8 17 26
3 12 21
Design S92:
=
1, c2
v = 27,
m= 9, n = 3,
r = 8,
k = 9,
b= 24
A₁
=
8,
A2
= 2
11 18
=
1/9, H= 14, A = 48
E, 1.00, E₂ = .90, E= .91
=
2
=
16
Solution 1: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (9,3)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of S91.
Solution 2: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 16
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (9,3)
1
2
89
15
16
56
3 10 17 4 11 18
4
5
6
7
1234
4567
18
21
234SOTA
2
9 16
10 17
5 12
19 6 13 20
20 7 14 21
1 8 15
KERKLEY
19
4567123
12 19
6 13 20
14
21
8
15
2 9
16
3 10
17
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
89OI234
1234567
10 18
2143657
9 16
12
19 5 12
20
13 21
14 15
21
13 15
234567
16 2 9 18
14
16
1
17
8 15
10
17
15
11
13
11
12 19
10
17
13
20
13 20
12 19
9 16
12
14
21
15
14 21
9
16
11
18
POI2348
3 10 19
4 11 20
H2348aa
4567123
11
12
Plan: 1 10 19 2 11 20
3 12 21
13
4 13 22 5 14 23
6 15 24
14
7 16 25
8 17 26
9 18 27
9
1
10
10 19
2 11 20
3 12 21
4 13 22
7 16 25
5 14 23
6 15 24
R24
1436572
14 21
3657214
123
1
10 19
5 14 23
2 11 20
3
12 21
6 15 24
4 13 22
10 19
11 20
6 15 24
4 13 22
3 12 21
17 26
9 18 27
18 27
16 25
17 26
8 17 26
9 18
27
5 14 23 7 16 25
8
876
222
(Plan continued on next page)
128
\n--- PAGE 00000141 ---\nTABLE V. Singular group divisible designs - Continued
Design S93:
v = 30,
r =
€9,
k = 9,
b= 30
λ₁ = 9,
λz
= 2
=
=
m 10, n= 3,
CI 1, c, 1/15, H= 47/3, A = 60
E,
1.00, E₂ = .90, E= .90
Solution 1: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 21
-
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups: (10,3)
Cyclically develop the six initial blocks
1 11 21 26 6 16 8 18 28
4 13
7 16 25 8
213
11
10
3 12 21 6
222 222
2 11 20 1 10 19
3 12 21
5 14
23
6
15 24
17
26
9
18 27
20
19
4
13 22
7
16 25
5
14
23
8 17 26
15
24
9
18 27
2 11
10
1 10
222 222
M2
213
20
5 14
19 6 15
24
12 21 4 13
22
876
23 9 18 27
16 25
8 17 26
Plan:
3 12 21 5 14
23
7 16 25
19 4 13
22
9 18 27
2 11 20 6 15
24 8 17 26
13 23 3
4 24 14
18 28 8
22 2 12 8 18 28
6 16 26 17 27 7
26 6 16 12 2 22
5 15 25
28 8
15 25 5
18
2
6 15 24
16 25
3 12 21
4 13 22
17 26
Solution 3: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 16
Dual: Not a D(x), x = = 1, 2, 3
223
Groups: (9,3)
Plan: 1 10
19
2 11 20
3 12
21
4 13
5
14 23
6 15 24
7 16
25
8
17 26
9 18 27
1 10 19
4 13 22
7
16 25
2 11 20
3 12 21 6
5 14 23
8 17 26
15 24
9 18 27
1 10 19 5 14 23 9 18 27
11
2220
876
16 26 6 23 13 3 24 4 14
using cycles of length 5 and cycling within
the six subsets of treatments 1-5, 6-10,
11-15, 16-20, 21-25 and 26-30. Each posi-
tion within blocks contains a replication.
Solution 2:
Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 21
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (10,3)
Plan: 1 11 21
2 12
22
4 14 24
2 12 22 3
3 13 23
13 23
5 15 25
4 14 24
6 16 26
4 14 24
5
15 25
7 17 27
5 15 25
6
16 26
1 11 21
6 16 26
7 17 27
2 12 22
1 10 19
6 15 24 8 17 26
2 11 20
4 13 22
3 12 21
5 14 23
897
7 17 27
1 11 21
3 13 23
18
27
7 17 27
5
15 25
8 18 28
16
25
1 11
21
6
16 26
8 18 28
2 12 22
7 17
27
8 18 28
136
10 19
2 11 20
12 21 5 14 23
6 15 24
7 16 25
468
13 22
3 13 23
1
11 21
8 18 28
9
18
27
4 14 24
2
12 22
8 18 28
17
26
5 15 25
6 16
3 13 23
8 18 28
26
4
14 24
8
18 28
124
222
123
10 19
11 20
4 13
10 19
12 21
14 23
8 17 26
14 23
16
358
799
16 25
2 12 22
5 15 25
9 19 29
6
15 24
3 13 23
6 16 26
9 19 29
9
18 27
4 14 24
7 17 27
9 19 29
5 15 25
1
11 21
9 19 29
124
=3
2225
11 20
25
3
12
21 4 13 22
15 24
12 21
5 14 23
574
968
17
26
6 16
26
2
12 22
9 19 29
18 27
7 17 27
3 13 23
9 19 29
635
10 19
2 11
13
20
Remark: It is known to the author that the BIB
design (9,24,8,3,2) has at least seven
distinct solutions so that the plan for
design S92 may have at least 7 distinct
arrangements. Only three of these are
given though seven can be constructed.
987
15 24
18 27
8 17 26
1 11 21
4
14 24
9 19 29
1 11 21
2
12 22
10 20 30
2 12 22
3
13 23
10 20 30
3 13 23
4 14
24 10 20 30
16 25
4 14 24
5 15 25
10 20 30
5 15 25
6 16 26 10 20 30
6 16 26
7 17 27
1 11 21
8 18 28
8 18 28
9 19 29
7 17 27 10 20 30
10 20 30
9 19 29 10 20 30
10 20 30
(Plan continued on next page)
129
\n--- PAGE 00000142 ---\nTABLE V. Singular group divisible designs - Continued
Solution 3: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 21
Dual: Irregular
Plan:
1
14 27
2
15 28
3 16 29
1
14 27
10 23 36
4 17 30
1
14 27 8 21 34
9 22 35
Groups: (10,3)
1
14 27
5 18
31
11 24 37
1
14 27
7 20
33 6 19 32
Plan: 2 12 22
3 13 23
3 13 23
1 11 21
2
1 11 21
3
2222222
12 22 6 16 26
64456
16 26
9
19
29
14 27 13
26 39
12 25 38
14 24
7
17 27
2
15 28 4
17 30
5 18 31
14 24
7
17 27
2 15 28 7
20 33
8 21 34
15
25
8
18
28
2 15 28
11
24 37
12 25 38
9
19 29
2 15 28
6
19 32
13 26 39
5
15
25
8
18 28
2 15 28
10
23 36 9
22 35
13 23 6 16
26
8
18 28
3
16 29
4 17 30
13
26 39
1
11 21
7 17
27
9
19 29
3 16 29
5 18 31
10 23 36
2
12 22
7
17 27
10 20
30
3
16 29
6 19 32 9 22 35
1
11 21
2 12 22
34
13 23
10 20 30
3 16 29
8
21 34
11
14 24 8 18
28
3 16 29
7 20
33
24 37
12 25 38
5 15 25
9
19 29
10 20 30
4
17 30
6 19
32 8
21 34
4 14 24
5
15
25
6 16 26
4 17 30
7
20
33
11 24 37
2 12 22
3
13 23
5 15 25
4 17
30
3 13 23
6 16
26
10 20 30
5
18 31
4 14 24
5 15 25
10 20 30
5 18 31
6 19 32
9 22 35
1
11 21
6
16 26
7 17 27
5 18 31
2 12 22
8
18 28
10
20 30
7 17 27
8
18 28
9 19 29
1 11 21
4 14
24
9
19 29
1 11 21
2
12 22
3
13 23
6 19 32
7 20 33
8 21 34 12
9 22
8 21 34
11 24
13 26
25 38
9 22 35 12 25 38
12 25 38
7 20 33
13 26 39
37 10 23 36
39 10 23 36
10 23 36
35 11
24 37
13 26 39
2 12 22
5 15
25
7
17 27
4 14 24
6
16
26
8
18 28
Design S95:
4 14 24
9 19
29
10
20 30
v = 45,
m 15,
r =
n= 3,
7,
k = 9,
b= 35
λ1
=
7,
λ2 = 1
7
17 27
8
18 28
10 20 30
3
13 23
5 15 25
9 19 29
1
11 21
6
16 26
10
1
11 21
2 12 22
4 14 24
3
13
5
15
25
223
8 18 28
9 19 29
6 16 26
7
17
27
v = 39, r = 6,
k
= 9,
m= 13, n= 3,
λι
=
6,
Design S94:
-
c₁ = 1, c₂ = -1/39, H= 31/3, A
E, 1.00, E2.89, E = .89
=
26
Solution 1: Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 20
Dual: Design M27, Solution 1
Groups: (13,3)
Plan:
Cyclically develop the two initial blocks
1 14 27 3 16 29 9 22 35
1 14 27 5 18 31 4 17 30
using cycles of length 13 and cycling
within the three subsets of treatments
1-13, 14-26, and 27-39. Counting from the
left (or right) each triple of blocks
contains two replications, and each initial
block provides three replications.
Solution 2: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
=
20
Dual: Design M27, Solution 2
Groups: (13,3)
Design S96:
v = 57, r = 9,
k = 9,
b= 57
m 19, n= 3,
λ,
=
9,
2
= = 1
c₁ = 1, c₂ = −7/57, H= 46/3, A
E= 1.00, E2.88, E= .88
= 57
Solution: Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 48
Dual: Design M36
Groups: (19,3)
Plan: Cyclically develop the three initial blocks
1 20 39 7 26 45 11 30 49
20 39 1 32 51 13 21 40 2
39 1 20 44 6 25 41 3 22
using cycles of length 19 and cycling within
the three subsets of treatments 1-19, 20-38,
and 39-57. Each position within blocks
contains a replication, and each initial
block provides three replications.
20 30
b= 26
λ2 = 1
c₁ = 1, c₂ = −1/15, H= 12, A = 35
E, 1.00, E₂ = .88, E = .89
Solution:
2
-
Complement: Not listed, r = 28
Dual: Design M30
Groups: (15,3)
Plan: In a resolvable plan for the BIB design
(15,35,7,3,1) replace each treatment with
a group of n = 3 distinct treatments given
by the groups of the association scheme
(15,3) of Table II. The 7 known distinct
resolvable solutions for (15,35,7,3,1) are
given by Cole (1922).
Nonunique; resolvable
130
\n--- PAGE 00000143 ---\nTABLE V. Singular group divisible designs - Continued
v = 63, r = 10,
m 21, n= 3,
==
k = 9,
λ₁
10, A2
b= 70
= 1
Design S97:
=
1, c₂ = -1/7, H= 17, A
E= 1.00, E₂ = .88, E = .88
=
70
Solution: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 60
Dual: Design M41
Groups: (21,3)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 12, the single
initial block:
1 2 3 4 6 7 8 9 10 12
Each position within blocks contains a
replication, and the first (last) six blocks
contain five replications.
k = 10, b= 3
=
= 2, A2 1
Design S100:
v = 15, r = 2,
m= 3,
n = 5,
λ₁
=
1, ca
= 3
Plan: In a plan for the BIB design (21,70,10,3,1)
replace each treatment with a group of n
distinct treatments given by the groups of
the association scheme (21,3) of Table II.
= 3
Design S98:
v = 12, r = 5,
n = 2,
m= 6,
k: = 10,
b= 6
λ₁
=
5,
2
=
c₁ = 1, c₂ = 13/16, H= 49/5, ▲ = 24
E= 1.00, E₂ = .98, E = .98
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: The BIB design (6,12,10,5,8), Roy and Laha
(1956)
Groups: (6,2)
Plan:
1
234561
789O12
23456
10
11
345612
89612
4 10
11
9
4 10 5 11
4 10 5 11 6 12
11 6 12
127899
569234
HA278а
6 12
1
7
7
8
3
9
23
4 10
2/5, H= 7/2, ▲
E= 1.00, E₂ = .94, E = .95
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual:
The BIB design (3,15,10,2,5), Roy and Laha
(1956)
Groups: (3,5)
Plan: 1
2
3
789
456
345
23
10 13
11 14
15
5 8 11 14
6 9 12 15
10 13
1 4 7
9 12
Design S101:
v = 15,
m= 3,
r = 4,
n = 5,
X,
=
k= = 10,
= 4,
b = 6
λ2 2
c₁ = 1, c₂ = 2/5, H= 7, ▲ = 12
E, 1.00, E₂ = .94, E = .95
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Design S5
Groups: (3,5)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of $100.
k=
=
Design S99:
v = 12, r = 10, k = 10, b = 12
m= 6,
n = 2, A₁ 10, λ₂ = 8
=
Design S102: v = 15, r = 6,
n = 5,
m= 3,
A,
=
=
= 27
10,
6,
=
b = 9
=
A2 = 3
CI 1, c2= 13/16, H= 98/5, A = 96
E, 1.00, E₂ = .98, E = .98
Solution 1: Unique; 5-resolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Truly self dual
Groups: (6,2)
Plan:
Cyclically develop the two initial blocks
1 7 2 8 3 9 4 10 5 11
7 1 8 2 9 3 10 4 11 5
using cycles of length 6 and cycling within
the two subsets of treatments 1-6 and 7-12.
Each position within a block contains a
replication, and each initial block provides
five replications.
*Remark: The uniqueness assertion is correct. The
two plans printed here are isomorphic;
but it is interesting to note that while
Solution 1 utilizes two initial blocks
for construction, Solution 2 requires
only one.
Solution 2: As given by John (1966); unique;
5-resolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Truly self dual
Groups: (6,2)
2
c = 1, c₂ = 2/5, H= 21/2, A
E, 1.00, E,= .94, E = .95
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Design S25
Groups: (3,5)
Plan: Repeat the plan of S100 three times.
Design S103: y= 15, r = 8, k:
m= 3,
5, A₁
n=
=
c₁ = 1, c₂= 2/5, H= 14, ▲ - 48
1.00, E₂ = .94, E = .95
E,
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Design S57
Groups: (3,5)
=
10,
b= 12
=
8,
=
2 4
Plan: Repeat the plan of S100 four times.
131
\n--- PAGE 00000144 ---\nTABLE V. Singular group divisible designs - Continued
Design S104: v= 15, r = 10,
k
===
10,
m= 3, n= 5,
λι
=
10, A2
b= 15
= 5
c,
E,
1, c₂ = 2/5, H= 35/2, A = 75
1.00, E,= .94, E = .95
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Truly self dual
Groups: (3,5)
Plan:
Repeat the plan of S100 five times and
rearrange the treatments within blocks so
as to provide a replication for each
position within blocks.
k = 10, b= 18
Design S105: v= 18,
r =
m= 9, n = 2,
10,
λ₁
=
10, A2
= 5
Design S106: v= 20,
r = 3,
k= 10,
m= 4,
n = 5,
λ₁
=
3,
b= 6
A₂ = 1
c₁ =
E,
1, c₂= 1/10, H= 5, A = 6
1.00, E₂ = .91, E = .93
Solution: Unique; affine resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Design SR22, Solution 1
Groups: (4,5)
Plan: 1 5 9 13 17
3 7
11 15 19
9 13 17
10
96
56
12
56
1
12
2
78
14 18
9 13 17
34
78
10 14 18
24
34
43
6 10 14 18
8 12 16 20
7 11 15 19
8 12 16 20
12 16 20
11 15 19
87
=
c1, c2= 1/2, H= 19, A 90
E, 1.00, E,= .95, E =
Solution 1:
=
.95
Nonunique; 5-resolvable
Complement: Design S65, Solution 1
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups:
Plan:
(9,2)
Cyclically develop the two initial blocks
3 12 5 14 6 15 7 16 8 17
10 1 11 2 14 5 15 6 17 8
using cycles of length 9 and cycling within
the two subsets of treatments 1-9 and 10-18.
Each position within blocks contains a
replication, and each initial block provides
five replications.
Solution 2: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design S65, Solution 2
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (9,2)
Plan: Take the complement of design S65,
Solution 2.
Solution 3:
Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design S65, Solution 3
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (9,2)
Design S107:
v= 20, r = 6,
n= 4, n= 5, λι 6,
k = 10, b = 12
λε
= 2
c1, c2= 1/10, H= 10, A = 24
E, 1.00, E₂ = .91, E = .93
=
Solution:
Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (4,5)
Plan:
1
3
57
9 13 17
517
18
88
78
24
34
43
5
6
8
11 15 19
9 13 17
10 14 18
13 17
3
10 14 18 3
10 14 18
12 16 20
34
96
H2
21
56
36
88
78
87
12
12
24
34
43
6
10
57
87
14 18
12 16 20
11 15 19
12 16 20
12 16 20
11 15 19
9
90
56
13
12
11
13 17
15 19
11
15 19
13 17
12 16
20 2
10 14 18
12 16 20
11
15
19
2
36
12
5
9 13 17
10 14 18
Plan: Take the complement of design S65,
Solution 3.
Solution 4:
Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design S65, Solution 4
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (9,2)
Plan:
Take the complement of design S65,
Solution 4.
=
10,
9,
b = 18
= 3
Design S108:
v =
20, r = 9,
MF 4,
n = 5,
k:
=
λ₁
=
54
c1, c2= 1/10, H= 15, A
=3
E, 1.00, E, .91, E = .93
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (4,5)
2
Plan: Repeat the plan of S106 three times.
132
\n--- PAGE 00000145 ---\nTABLE V.
Singular group divisible designs - Continued
Design S109: v= 20, r = 9,
m= 10, n= 2,
k = 10,
λ =
b=
= 18
9,
2
= 4
Solution 3: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Self complementary
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3, 4
Groups: (10,2)
c₁ = 1, c₂ = 7/16, H= 17, ▲ = = 72
E, 1.00, E₂ = .94, E = .94
Solution 1: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Plan: 1 11 2 12 3 13
5
15
9 19
2 12 3 13
4 14
6 16
1 11
3
13
4 14
5
15
7 17
2 12
4 14
5 15
6
16
8 18
3 13
Groups: (10,2)
5 15
6 16
7 17
9 19
4 14
6 16 7 17
8 18
1 11
5 15
Plan: 1 11
4
14
2
2 12
5
15
3
3 13
6 16
1
231
6 16 10 20
7 17 8 18
9 19
2 12
6 16
4 14 10 20
8 18
9 19
1 11
3 13
7 17
5 15 10 20
9 19
1
11
2 12
4 14 8 18
4 14
7
17
5
15
9 19
10 20
1 11
2
12
5 15
7 17 10 20
5 15
8 18
6 16
7 17
10 20
2 12
3 13
6 16
8 18 10 20
6 16
9
19
4 14
8 18
10 20
3 13
4 14
7 17
9 19 10 20
7 17
1
11
8
18
3
13
10 20
4 14
5 15
8 18
1 11 10 20
8 18
2
12
9 19
1 11
10 20
5 15
6 16
9 19
2
12 10 20
9 19
3
13
7
17
2 12
10 20
6 16
7 17
1 11
3
13 10 20
1
11
4
14
7 17
2 12
6 16
7 17
8 18
2 12 4 14 10 20
2 12
5
15
8
18
3 13
4 14
8 18
9 19
3 13
5
15
10 20
3 13 6
16
9 19
1
11
5 15
9 19
1 11
4 14
6 16
10 20
1 11
4
14
7 17
5 15
9 19
2 12
5
15
8 18
6
16
7 17
Design S110: v= 22, r = 5,
k = 10,
b = 11
3 13
6
16
9 19
4
14
8 18
m= 11, n= 2,
λι
=
5,
2 = 2
1 11
4 14
7
17
8 18
3 13
2 12 5 15
8
18 9 19
1 11
3 13 6 16
9 19 7 17
2 12
Solution 2: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (10,2)
c₁ = 1, c₂ = 17/44, H= 47/5, A = 22
1.00, E,= .94, E= .94
E,
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, k = 12
Dual: The true duplicate solution for the BIB
design (11,22,10,5,4), Roy and Laha (1956)
Groups: (11,2)
Plan: Cyclically develop the initial block
Plan: 1 11
1 11
1 11
1
11
1 11
17
1
1
11
1 11
2 12
2 12
2 12
3 13
3
4
14
=========222 22333 +
2 12 3 13 4 14
5 15
2 12 3 13
6 16
7 17
2 12
4 14
6 16
9 19
2 12
5
15
7 17
8 18
3 13
6
16
8 18
9 19
1 11 3 13
7 17
8 18 10 20
11 4 14
5
15
6
16 10 20
4 14
8 18
9 19 10 20
5 15
7 17
9 19 10 20
3 13
4 14
8
3 13 5 15
18 10 20
9 19 10 20
12
4 14 7 17
5 15
8 18 9 19
6 16
8 18 10 20
2 12 6 16 7 17
3 13
9 19 10 20
E,
4 14 6
16
7 17 10 20
4 14 5 15
7 17 9 19
13 5 15
6 16
8 18 9 19
55
765
5 15 6 16
7 17 8 18
1 12 4 15 5 16 9 20 3 14
using cycles of length 11 and cycling within
the two subsets of treatments 1-11 and
12-22. Counting from the left (or right)
each pair of positions within blocks
contains a replication.
Design S111: v = 22, r = 10, k = 10, b = 22
m= 11, n= 2, λ₁
10, A2 = 4
=
c₁ = 1, c₂ = 17/44, H= 94/5, A = 88
1.00, E,= .94, E = .94
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 12
Dual: Truly self dual
Groups: (11,2)
(Plan continued on next page)
133
\n--- PAGE 00000146 ---\nTABLE V. Singular group divisible designs - Continued
1 12 4 15 5 16 9 20 3 14
using cycles of length 11 and cycling within
the two subsets of treatments 1-11 and
12-22. Each position within blocks contains
Plan: Cyclically develop the two initial blocks
12 1 15 4 16 5 20 9 14 3
Plan:
67890
12345
12345
5 10
6 11 16 21
12 17 22
8 13 18 23
14 19 24
15 20 25
6 11
7
12
8 13
16 21
17 22
18 23
9 14 19 24
5 10
15 20 25
23451
34512
7 12 17 22
8 13 18 23
9 14 19 24
5 10 15 20 25
6
5 10
11 16 21
2222222222
8 13 18 23
9 14 19 24
6
15 20 25
11 16 21
7
12
17
a replication, and each initial block provides
five replications.
Solution 2: Nonunique; 5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 12
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups: (11,2)
Plan: Cyclically develop the two initial blocks
1 12 3 14 4 15 5 16 9 20
13 2 17 6 18 7 19 8 21 10
using cycles of length 11 and cycling
within the two subsets of treatments 1-11,
and 12-22. Five replications are generated
by each of the initial blocks, and each
position within blocks contains a
replication.
Solution 3: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (11,2)
Plan:
1 12
234
2 13
34567
45678
45678
15
16
5678
365
22222
Design S113:
v = 25, r = 8,
m= 5, n = 5,
k = 10,
λ
= 8,
=
b= 20
λ₂ 2
c₁ = 1, c₂ = -2/25, H= 13, A = 40
E, 1.00, E2= .89, E = .91
-
=
= = 12
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (5,5)
Duplicate the plan of S112.
Plan:
Design S114:
v = 30, r = 5,
m= 6, n = 5,
k = 10,
λ₁
=
5,
b= 15
A₂ = 1
15
c₁ = 1, c₂ = −1/5, H= 8, ▲ =
E, 1.00, E,= .88, E= .90
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, k = 20
Dual: Design T52
14
16
20
15
17 10 21
3
14
16
17
18 11
4
15
17
18
19
1 12
5 16
18
19 9 20
2
13
6 17
8
19
9 20 10 21
3
14
Groups: (6,5)
7
9
10
11
B2222
18
8 19 10 21 11
20
11
21 1 12
2
22222
9 20 10
21
11
1
13
123
12224
1 12
2
13
3 4
22343
4
15
13
14
15
5678
5
16
Plan:
17
7 18
8 19
135
2 7 8
3
4
9 10
13 14
15
6
11 12
468
16
19 20
21 22
25 26
27 28
17 18 23 24
29 30
21
13 2 15 4 14
43
12
1
14 3
16
15 4 16
17
54
435
14 3 17 6 18
16 5 18 7 19
18
19 8
21
10
233
47222222
3567
16
17
18
19
8 20
20
11 13 2
16
12
17
21
10 13
2
12
15
22 11
12
1 15
4
14
17 6 19
7 20 9 21 10 22 11 14
20 9 22 11 13
9 21 10 15
56789CE
20 9
21 10
22 11
13
12
21
143
18
19
POL21435678
25 27
26 30
28 29
19 22
20 23
21 24
25 28
10
780
365
124
8 12
11
921
13 15
19 21
14 18
20 24
16 17
22 23
26 29
27 30
789
456
123
7 10
13 16
02
11 14 17
12 15 18
13 17
19 23
25
14 15
16 18
20 21 26
22 24
7 12
13 18 19
Design S112:
v = 25, r = 4,
m= 5, n = 5,
k = 10,
b= 10
8 10
14 16
20
λ₁
=
= 4, λ2 1
=
9 11
15 17 21 23
22222
228 222
29
27
30
536
124
7 11
8
9
6
10
12
24
25 30
26 28
27 29
645
123
c₁ = 1, c₂ = -2/25, H= 13/2, A = 10
=
E, 1.00, E₂ = .89, E = .91
2
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, k = 15
Dual: Design T32
Groups: (5,5)
134
\n--- PAGE 00000147 ---\nTABLE V. Singular group divisible designs - Continued
10, b: = 30
10,
k
=
10, A2
= 2
Design S115: v= 30,
r =
m= 6, n = 5, x₁
1, c₂= -1/5, H= 16, A = 60
E, 1.00, E,= .88, E = .90
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 20
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (6,5)
Plan:
Duplicate the plan of S114.
Design S116: v= 35, r = 6,
m= 7,
c₁ = 1, c₂ = −2/7, H= 19/2, ▲ = 21
E, 1.00, E, .88, E= .89
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 15
Dual: Design T69
Groups: (7,5)
Plan: Cyclically develop the three initial blocks
1 8 15 22 29 2 9 16 23 30
k= 10,
b= 21
n = 5,
A₁
=
6,
2
= 1
Plan: In the plan for the combinatorially unique
BIB design (21,21,5,5,1), a solution for
which may be obtained by developing modulo
21 the initial block 1 4 14 16 21, replace
each treatment by a group of n = 2 distinct
treatments given by the groups of the
association scheme (21,2) of Table II.
Design S119: v= 42, r = 10,
k= 10, b= 42
m= 21, n = 2,
λ,
=
10, A2
c₁ = 1, c₂ = 1/7, H= 92/5, ▲ = 84
1.00, E,= .91, E = .91
E,
Solution:
Nonunique; 5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 32
Dual: Truly self dual
Groups: (21,2)
Plan:
Duplicate the plan of S118.
= 2
Note: It is known to the author that the BIB
design (21,42,10,5,2), upon which the
present design depends for its construct-
ion, has a least 58 different solutions.
Hence at least 58 distinct plans may be
constructed for design S119.
1 8 15 22 29
3 10 17 24 31
1 8 15 22 29 4 11 18 25 32
using cycles of length 7 and cycling within
the five subsets of treatments 1-7, 8-14,
15-21, 22-28, and 29-35. The five positions
within blocks on the left (right) contain
three replications, and each initial block
provides two replications.
Design S117: v= 40, r = 7,
=
k= 10,
n= 8,
b= 28
= 5, λ = 7, λε = 1
1, c₂-7/20, H11, A = 28
E,= 1.00, E,= .87, E = .88
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 21
Dual: Design T76
Groups: (8,5)
Plan: In the resolvable solution for the combin—
atorially unique BIB design (8,28,7,2,1)
replace each treatment with a group of n = 5
distinct treatments given by the groups of
the association scheme (8,5) of Table II.
Design S118: v= 42, r = 5,
# 21, n = 2,
k= 10, b 21
λ₁ = 5, λ₂ = 1
c₁ = 1, c₂ = 1/7, H= 46/5, A
E,= 1.00, E,= .91, E = .91
=
21
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 16
Dual: True duplicate solution for the BIB design
(21,42,10,5,2), Roy and Laha (1956)
Groups: (21,2)
Design S120: v= 45, r = 8, k = 10,
b= 36
n = 5, λ₁ = 8, λ₂ 1
IF 9,
c, 1, c,= -2/5, H= 25/2, A = 36
E‚= 1.00, E,= .87, E = .88
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 28
Dual: Design T82
Groups: (9,5)
Plan: In the 2-resolvable solution for the
combinatorially unique BIB design
(9,36,8,2,1) given by developing modulo 9
the four initial blocks 1 2, 13, 14,
1 5, replace each treatment with a group
of n = 5 distinct treatments given by the
groups of the association scheme (9,5) of
Table II.
Design S121: v= 50, r = 6,
m= 25, n= 2,
k= 10, b= 30
λ,
=
6. λ2
-
c,= 1, c,= 1/10, H= 11, A = 30
E 1.00, E, .91, E = .91
Solution: Unique; affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 24
Dual: Design SR76
Groups: (25,2)
1
Plan: In a resolvable plan for the combinatori-
ally unique BIB design (25,30,6,5,1) replace
each treatment with a group of n = 2
distinct treatments given by the groups of
the association scheme (25,2) of Table II.
135
\n--- PAGE 00000148 ---\nTABLE V. Singular group divisible designs -
– Continued
Design S122: v= 50, r = 9,
k = 10,
b= 45
m 10, n= 5,
λι
-
9,
2
= 1
c₁ = 1, c₂ = −11/25, H= 14, A = 45
E, 1.00, E, .86, E= .87
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 36
Dual: Design T90
Groups: (10,5)
Plan: In a resolvable plan for the combinatori-
ally unique BIB design (10,45,9,2,1),
replace each treatment with a group of
n = 5 distinct treatments given by the
groups of the association scheme (10,5)
of Table II.
Design S123:
v = 55, r =
m 11, n = 5,
10,
λ₁
=
k = 10,
10, A2
b= 55
= 1
55
=
c1, c2=-26/55, H= 31/2, A
=
E, 1.00, E₂ = .86, E = .87
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 45
Dual: Design T100
Groups: (11,5)
=
Plan:
In a 2-resolvable solution for the combin-
atorially unique BIB design (11,55,10,2,1)
replace each treatment with a group of
n = 5 distinct treatments given by the
groups of the association scheme (11,5)
of Table II.
Design S124:
CI
E,
=
v =
82,
r =
10,
m 41, n = 2, A₁
k = 10, b= 82
=
10, A2 = 1
1, c₂ = 1/82, H= 91/5, A = 82
1.00, E₂ = .90, E= .90
Solution:
5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 72
Dual: Design M42
Groups: (41,2)
Plan: In a 5-resolvable plan for the BIB design
(41,82,10,5,1), a solution for which is
given by developing modulo 41 the two ini-
tial blocks 1 37 16 18 10, 8 9 5 21 39,
replace each treatment with a group of
n = 2 distinct treatments given by the
groups of the association scheme (41,2)
of Table II.
136
\n--- PAGE 00000149 ---\nTABLE VI. Semiregular group divisible designs: parameters and auxiliary information
Efficiencies
Number
Reference
number
V
k
ய
n
N=vr
E₁
E₂ E
Unique of
solution solutions
given
Complementary
design
Dual designs
Literature sources
SR1
2
SR2
2
SR3
SR4
2222
2
2
2 12
2
222
222
2 0
2
0
2
0
2 16 2
2
SR5
SR6
SR7
6
SR8
SR9
8
SR10
8
SR11
10 5
SR12
10 10 2
222
22222
10 2 20 2 2
2
9
22
3
0
123451
.50
2 50
50
6 2 18
3
0
2 27
2
3
16
231
50
2
32
25
50
SR13
12 6
SR14
14 7
SR15
16
SR16
18
SR17
SR18
6
8962
20 10 2
222223
2
36
2 49
2
64
2
81 2
100
8
3 4
2222222223
.50
2 .50
2
5
1 .50
2
50
6
7
0
1
O
1
9
1
.50
10
02
O
1
.50
2 0 1
.................5
.67
.67
50
.67
50
.67
50
.67
60
2 50 .60
60
.57
488822222
60
8 Yes
1 TSC
TSD.
P. M. Roy (1954c) [Clatworthy (1955)).
60
16 Yes
1 TSC
A D(3), WHC (1956).
Clatworthy (1955).
60
24 Yes
1 TSC
A D(3), WHC (1956).
Clatworthy (1955).
60
32 Yes
1 TSC
A D(3), WHC (1956).
Clatworthy (1955).
60
40 Yes
1 TSC
A D(3), WHC (1956).
Clatworthy (1955).
.56
18 Yes
1
SR35
LS7.
Clatworthy (1955).
.56
36 Yes
1
NL, r=12
A D(3), WHC (1956).
Clatworthy (1955).
56
54 Yes
1
NL, r-18
A D(3), WHC (1956).
Clatworthy (1955).
32 Yes
1
NL, r=12
LS28.
Clatworthy (1955).
.57
64 Yes
1
NL, r=24
A D(3), WHC (1956).
Clatworthy (1955).
.56
555
.53
50 Yes
1
NL, r=20
LS51.
Clatworthy (1955).
56
.53
100 Yes
1
NL, r=40
A D(3), WHC (1956).
Clatworthy (1955).
1 .50 55
.52 72 Yes
1
NL, r=30
LS74.
Clatworthy (1955).
.50 54 .52
98 Yes
1
NL, r=42
LS84.
Clatworthy (1955).
50 53 .52
128 Yes
1
NL, r=
56
LS102.
Clatworthy (1955).
.53
.67 .80
30
.51
.77
255
53 52 162 Yes
1
NL, r=72
LS119.
Clatworthy (1955).
200 Yes
1
NL, r=90
LS137.
Clatworthy (1955).
12 Yes
1
TSC
The BIB design (4, 6, 3, 2, 1), Roy and BCS (1954).
Laha (1956).
(Sol. 1: TSC
Sol. 1: S6.
BCS (1954).
SR19
64383
320 2.67 .80 .77 24 No
2
Sol. 2: TSC
Sol. 2: A D(3).
Sol. 1: TSC
Sol. 1: $27.
SR20
6 6 3 12 3 2 0
203.67
3.67 .80 .77
36 No
2
Sol. 2: TSC
Sol. 2: An affine resolvable design with
four distinct x's, P. M. Roy (1954b).
Sol. 1: TSC
Sol. 1: S61.
SR21
6 8
8 3 16
3
2 0
4 .67
.80
SR22
6 10 3
20
3
2
0
5
.67 .80 .77
880
.77
48 No
2
Sol. 2: TSC
60 No
3 Sols: 1, 2, 3:
Sol. 1: $106.
TSC
SR23
3
SR24
933 93
9 6 3 18
3
3
0
2
.67 .75 .73
54 No
2 NL, r=12
SR25
9 9 3 27
3
3
0
3 .67 .75
.73
81 No
2 NL, r=18
SR26
12
3 16 3 4
0
1 .67 .73 .71
48 No
2 NL, r=12
SR27
12
8
3
32
3
0
2 .67 .73
.71
96 No
3 NL, r=24
0 1 .67 .75 .73
27 Yes
1 SR 65
Sol. 2: A D(4), WHC (1956).
Sols. 2, 3: Irregular.
Truly self dual, P. M. Roy (1954b),
and Clatworthy (1971).
Sol. 1: A D(3), WHC (1956).
Sol. 2: Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
Sol. 1: A D(3), WHC (1956).
Sol. 2: Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
Sol. 1: LS29 Sol. 1 or LS36, Sol. 1.
Sol. 2: LS29, Sol. 2 or M16.
(Sol. 1: A D(3), WHC (1956).
Sol. 2: A D(3), WHC (1956).
Sol. 3: Irregular.
Bose and Nair (1939). [P. M. Roy (1954b),
John (1966)).
BSC (1954).
P. M. Roy (1954b).
BCS (1954).
Bose and Nair (1939).
Sol. 1: BCS (1954).
Sols. 2, 3: Unknown.
Bose and Nair (1939), BCS (1954).
[Clatworthy (1967)].
BCS (1954).
Clatworthy, new.
BCS (1954).
Clatworthy (1967).
BCS (1954).
Dual of the Design LS29, Sol. 1.
BCS (1954).
Design SR26, Sol. 2.
Sol. 3, John (1966).
137
\n--- PAGE 00000150 ---\nReference
number
-
[
b
Dual designs
TABLE VI. Semiregular group divisible designs: parameters and auxiliary information-Continued
E
λι
Efficiencies
N = vr
Unique
solution
Number
of
E2
E
Solutions
given
Complementary
design
تر
Literature sources
SR28
SR29
1555
10
SR30
18
6
SR31
21
33
59
33
50
150
25 3
3
33
5 5
0 1
0
12
DO
.67
2
.67
139 14
.71
.70
75
No
1
NL, r=20
LS 52.
.71
.70
150 No
2
NL, r=40
Sol. 1: A D(3), WHC (1956).
BCS (1954).
BCS (1954).
Sol. 2: Not a D(x), x =1, 2, 3.
Clatworthy, new.
36
49
SR32
24
8
64
SR33 27 9
81
3
33
33
19
.67
.71
67
.70
=2
.69 108 No
69
147 No
920
1
NL, r=30
LS75.
BCS (1954).
1
NL, r=42
LS85.
BCS (1954).
SR34 30 10
100
8
3
10
SR35
6 6
9
2
8963
67
.70
69
192 ?
1❘ NL, r=56
LS103.
BCS (1954).
0
1
.67 69
68
243 ?
1 NL, r=72
LS120.
BCS (1954).
0
67 .69
68
300 ?
1
NL, r=90
LS138.
BCS (1954).
3
.87
.91
.90
36 Yes
1
SR6
LS72.
BCS (1954) [John(1966)].
Sol. 1: TSC
TSD, P. M. Roy (1954b) and Clatworthy BCS (1954).
SR36
8
4 4 8
4
2
0
2
.75 86 .84
32
32
No
2
(1971).
Sol. 2: TSC
A D(3).
Connor (1952).
SR37
8 6
4 12
4
2 0 3 .75
.86 .84
48 ?
1 TSC
Irregular.
BCS (1954).
Sol. 1: TSC
Sol. 1: SR66, P. M. Roy (1954b).
BCS (1954).
SR38
8 6
4
122
2
4
2
3.83
87.85 48
No
3Sol. 2: TSC
Sol. 3: TSC
Sol. 2: Irregular.
Sol. 3: Irregular.
SR39
8 8
16
971
2 0
4 .75 86 .84 64
No
2 Sols. 1, 2: TSC
Sol. 1: A D(3), WHC (1956).
SR40
10
20
SR41
12 3
9
23
0
5 .75 .86
.84
0 1 .75
.82
.80
30
3980
80
?
1
TSC
36
Yes
1
SR90
Sol. 1: S37.
SR42
122
6 4
18
→
3
0
2
.75 .82 .80 72 No
2 NL, r=12
Sol. 1: S91.
SR43
122
9
4
27
3
0
3 75
SR44
166
4
4 16
4
0
1
.75
.80
888888
.82 .80 108 No
2 NL, r=18
Sol. 2: Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3, 4.
.79
64 ?
1 NL, r=12
Sol. 2: A D(4), WHC (1956).
Irregular.
P. M. Roy (1954c).
P. M. Roy (1954c).
Sol. 1: BCS (1954).
Sol. 2: Derived from Design SR36, Sol.2
BCS (1954), design SR11 rearranged.
The BIB design (9, 12, 4, 3, 1), Roy and BCS(1954).
Laha (1956).
Sol. 2: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3.
TSD, P.M. Roy (1954b) and Clatworthy
(1971).
Sol. 1: Derived from Design SR41.
Sol. 2: BCS(1954).
Sol. 1: Dervied from Design SR41.
Sol. 2: BCS(1954).
BCS(1954) [Clatworthy (1967)].
SR45
16
32
SR46
20 5
25
22
SR47
20 10
50
SR48 28 7
49
SR49
32 8
64
SR50 36 9
81
SR51
40 10
100
10
4557890
0
2 .75 .80 .79 128 ?
1
NL, r=24
A D(3), WHC (1956).
BCS (1954).
0
1
.75
.79 .78
100 ?
1
NL, r=20
LS53.
BCS (1954).
2 .75
.79 .78
200 ?
1
NL, r=40
A D(3), WHC (1956).
BCS (1954).
75 .78 .77 196 No
1
NL, r=42
LS86.
BCS (1954).
0
1
.75 .77 .77
256 ?
1
NL, r=56
LS104.
BCS (1954).
0
1
.75 .77 .77
324 ?
1
NL, r=72
LS121.
BCS (1954).
1
.75 .77 .76
SR52
10 4
5
8
5
2 0
2
.80 .89
888
400 ?
1
NL, r=90
LS139.
40
?
1
TSC
A D(3).
SR53
10 6
5
12
5
СЛ
2
0
3
.80 .89 .88
60 ?
1
TSC
Sol. 1, 2: TSC
SR54
10
8
5
16
5
2
0
.80 .89
.88
80 No
3
Sol. 3: SC
SR55
10 10
5
20
5
2
0
5
.80
.89
.88
100 ?
1 TSC
Irregular.
Irregular.
Sol. 1: A D(4), WHC (1956).
Sol. 2: Dual is unknown.
Sol. 3: M31A.
Derived from Design LS139.
BCS (1954).
BCS (1954).
Sol. 1: Derived from Design SR52.
Sol. 2: BCS (1954).
Sol. 3: Derived from Design M31A.
BCS (1954).
138
\n--- PAGE 00000151 ---\nSR56
155
6
5 18
SR57
SR58
330
15 9 5 27
20 4
5
16
3
34
55
735
55
5
0
2 .80
86
85
69
90 ?
2 NL, r=12
5
3
0
31
.80
1 .80
880
.86
84
35
.85
84
59
135 ?
1
NL, r=18
Not a D(x), x-1, 2, 3, 4.
80 Yes
1
NL, r=12
SR59
20 8
5 32
5
0 2.80 .84 .84
160 No
2 NL, r-24
Sol. 1: S74.
Sol. 2: not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
SR60
25
SR61
25 10
SR62
35
SR63 40 8
SR64
SR65
45
9
9 6
96
555
507∞
556
25
50
5
49
5
ся сл сл
СЛ
-
.80
67
2
.80
0
80
64
81
9
SR66
12 4 6
8
3
553 6
.80
80
3
92
2
0
2 .83
SR67
12 6 6
122
6 2
0
3.83
2 83 88888
.83
.83
.82
.82
3322
.83
125 ?
1
NL, r=20
SD, P. M. Roy (1954b).
83
250 ?
1
NL, r=40
A D(3), WHC (1956).
Sol. 1: A D(3), Speckman (1970).
(Sol. 2: A D(3), Speckman (1970).
Sol. 1: BCS (1954).
Sol. 2: John (1966).
BCS (1954).
The BIB design (16, 20, 5, 4, 1), Roy BCS (1954).
and Laha (1956).
Sol. 1: Derived from Design SR58.
BCS (1954), Clatworthy (1967).
BCS (1954).
Sol. 2: BCS (1954).
.82
245
?
1
NL, r=42
LS 87,
82
320 ?
1
NL, r=56
LS105.
SCS (1954).
BCS (1954).
.82
81
405 ?
1
NL, r=72
LS122.
.94 .94
54 Yes
1 SR23
TSD.
.91
10
.90
48 ?
1 TSC
SR38, Sol. 1.
Sol. 1: TSC
.91 .90
72 No
2
Sol. 1: Irregular.
Sol. 2: TSC
(Sol. 1: SC, but
Sol. 1: TSD.
SR68
12 6 6
6 12 3 4
not TSC
2 3.89 .91 .91
72 No
2
Sol. 2: SR68,
Sol. 1.
Sol. 1: TSC
Sol. 2: TSD.
Sol. 1: A D(3), WHC (1956).
SR69 12 8 6 16 6
6
2
20 4 .83 .91 .90
96 No
3Sol. 2: TSC
Sol. 3: TSC
Sol. 3: LS98.
Sol. 2: Irregular.
BCS (1954).
BCS (1954) (Clatworthy (1967)].
BCS (1954)
BCS (1954)
P. M. Roy (1954b).
BCS (1954).
Derived from Design SR68, Sol. 1.
Derived from Design SR66.
Dual of Design LS91.
BCS (1954).
SR70
SR71
12
SR72
18
228
10
996
12 10 6 20
6
666
20
228
6
2
2
6 18 6
26
63
0
552
.90
888
5 .83 .91
.92
2 .83 .88 88
L28
.90
120 ?
1
TSC
Irregular.
.91
120 ?
1
TSC
SR106.
BCS (1954).
BCS (1954).
108 ?
1
NL, r=12
TSD, P. M. Roy (1954b) and Clatowrthy BCS (1954).
(1971).
SR73
18 9
SR74
24
SR75
999
985
6 27
6 32
30 5 6 25
222
6
6
34
0
6
СЛ
5
0
321
2
.83
xxx
0 3 .83 .88 .88
.87
.83 86 .86
878
86
888888
162
?
1
NL, r=18
A D(3), Speckman (1970).
192 ?
1
NL, r=24
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
BCS (1954).
BCS (1954).
150 Yes
1
NL, r=20
The BIB design (25, 30, 6, 5, 1), Roy and BCS (1954).
Laha (1956).
SR76
30 10 6
SR77
42 7 6 49
SR78
48 8
6
SR79
54
9
SR80
14
94
6
99999
50
6
6 7
0
64
6
0
81
6
9
0
217-
5 0 2 .83 .86 .86 300 ?
1
NL, r=40
$121.
.83 .85
.83
85 294 ?
1
NL, r=42
LS88.
.85 85
384 ?
1
NL, r-56
LS106.
1 .83
.85
.85
486 ?
1
NL, r-72
LS123.
BCS (1954).
BCS (1954).
BCS (1954).
BCS (1954).
7 8 7
2
0
2 .86 .92
.92
56 Yes
1
TSC
(1954b), Roy and Laha (1956).
SR81
143
6
7
12
7
2
0
3
.86 .92
.92
84 ?
1 TSC
Irregular.
Sol. 1: TSC
Sol. 1: S63, Solution 1.
SR82
14
8
7
16 7
2 0
.86
.92 .92
112 No
2
Sol. 2: TSC
SR83
14 10
7 20
7
SR84
21
6
7 18
7
23
2
52
5 .86
.86
SR85 21
7
27
7
3
0
3
.86
SR86
28
7
32
7
0
2 .86
SR87
49 7 7 49 7
0
.86
SR88
56
64
7
0
-
888888
.92
.92
140 ?
1
TSC
A D(3), Speckman (1970).
Irregular.
The BIB design (8, 14, 7, 4, 3), Roy BCS (1954).
BCS (1954).
Derived from Design S63, Sol. 1.
Derived from Design SR80.
BCS (1954).
.90
90
126 ?
1
NL, r=12
A D(3), Speckman (1970).
BCS (1954).
.90
.90
189 ?
1
NL, r=18
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3, 4.
BCS (1954).
.89
89
224 ?
NL, r=24
A D (3), Speckman (1970).
BCS (1954).
.87
87
343 ?
1
NL, r=42
SD, P. M Roy (1954b).
.86 .87 .87
SR89
63 9
81
0
.86
.87 87
88
448
?
1
NL, r=56
LS107.
567 ?
NL, r=72
LS124.
BCS (1954), Clatworthy (1967).
BCS (1954).
BCS (1954).
139
\n--- PAGE 00000152 ---\nTABLE VI. Semiregular group divisible designs: parameters and auxiliary information-Continued
Efficiencies
Number
Reference
number
V
E
A
λι
تر
E2
E
N=Vr Unique of
solution solutions
given
Complementary
design
Dual designs
Literature sources
SR90
12
6
8 9
◄
3 3 4
.94 .96
.95
72 Yes
1 SR41
SR91 16
SR92
16
66
6
8
68
88
12
8
16
26
∞ ∞
2
2
00
22
0 3
.88
.93 .93
4 .88
.93 .93
35
96 ?
128 ?
1 TSC
1 TSC
The BIB design (9, 12, 8, 6, 5), Roy BCS (1954).
and Laha (1956).
Irregular.
TSD, P. M. Roy (1954b) and Clatworthy BCS (1954).
BCS (1954).
(1971).
SR93
16
10
SR94
24
SR95
32
SR96
56
1967
8
20
2
8 27
3
8 32
8 49
22
4
8
7
2347
0
0
0
1
5327
.88
.93
.93
160 ?
1 TSC
Irregular.
BCS (1954).
.88
.91 .91
216 ?
1
NL, r=18
A D(3), Speckman (1970).
BCS (1954).
2 .88 90
.90
256 ?
1
NL r=24
SD, P. M. Roy (1954b).
BCS (1954).
.88
89
.89
392 Yes
1
NL, r=42
The BIB design (49, 56, 8, 7, 1), Roy
BCS (1954).
and Laha (1956).
SR97
64
SR98 72
SR99
428
9
18
896
688
64
0
1
8
81
8
9
12
9
2
76
0
1
0
3
113
.88
.88
.89
8888888
.89
8005
.89 .89
512 ?
1
NL, r=56
SD, P. M. Roy (1954b).
89
648 ?
1 NL, r=72
LS125.
.94 .94
108 ?
1 TSC
A D(3), Speckman (1970).
Sol. 1: LS99, Sol. 1.
SR100 18
9
8
16 9
2
O
4 .89
.94
.94
144 No
3 Sols. 1-3: TSC
Sol. 2: LS99, Sol. 2 or M32.
BCS (1954), Clatworthy (1967).
BCS (1954).
BCS (1954).
Sol. 1: Dual of LS99, Sol. 1.
Sol. 2: Dual of LS99, Sol. 2 or M32.
Sol. 3: A D(3), Speckman (1970).
Sol. 3: BCS (1954).
SR101
SR102
27
SR103
SR104
1822
10
9
9 9
8
36
9
72
8
9
2222
20
27
32
64
9999
2
3
23
С
.89
.94
.94
180 ?
1
TSC
Irregular.
BCS (1954).
3
2
32
89
.92
.92
243 ?
1
NL, r=18
SD, P. M. Roy (1954b).
BCS (1954).
89 .91
.91
288 ?
1
NL, r=24
A D(3), Speckman (1970).
BCS (1954).
1
89
.90
.90
576 ?
1
NL, r=56
The BIB design (64, 72, 9, 8, 1), Roy and BCS (1954).
Laha (1956).
SR105
81
81
SR106 20
6
10
12
12
10
90
9
9
SR107
20
10
16 10
2
SR108
20
10
10
20
SR109
30
9
10
220
10
27
10
†SR110
90
10
9
81
10
92223 a
1
0 3
0
0
9
0
DO
1
133
131
.89
.90
.90
.90
.90
វវវវវ ឲ
.90
.90
729 ?
1
NL, r=72
SD, P. M. Roy (1954b).
95
.94
120 ?
1
TSC
SR71.
.95 .94
160 ?
1 TSC
95
.94
200 ?
1 TSC
Irregular.
90
.93
.93
270 ?
1
NL, r=18
A D(3), Speckman (1970).
BCS (1954).
BCS (1954).
BCS (1954).
BCS (1954).
BCS (1954).
.91
.91
810 No
1
NL, r=72
The BIB design (81, 90, 10, 9, 1), Roy and Clatworthy, new.
Laha (1956).
140
† Plan not verified by computer.
E
\n--- PAGE 00000153 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs
Plan:
Repeat the plan of SR1 five times.
Design SR6:
v=
= 6,
m= 2,
r =
3,
n = 3,
λ₁
=
k = 2,
0,
b= 9
A2 1
=
= 9/2
k = 2,
Design SR1:
v = 4,
r = 2,
b = 4
m= 2,
n = 2,
A₁
=
0,
λα
=
1
1
0, c₂
1/2, H= 3, A = 2
E,= .50, E,= .67, E = .60
Solution: Unique; affine resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Truly self dual
Groups: (2,2)
Plan: 1
24
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/3, H= 9/2, ▲ =
E,= .50, E₂ = .60, E = .56
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Design SR35
Dual: Design LS7
Groups: (2,3)
Plan:
2
6
492
135
624
135
246
135
4
Design SR2:
v = 4,
r = 4,
k = 2,
b= 8
Design SR7:
m= 2,
n = 2,
λ₁ = 0,
λε
= 2
v = 6,
NF 2,
r = 6,
n = 3,
k = 2,
b= 18
λ₁ = 0,
λ₂ = 2
3
42
4
2
13
3
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/2, H= 6, ▲ = 8
= .50, E₂= .67, E = .60
E=
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (2,2)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of SR1.
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/3, H= 9, ▲ = 18
E= .50, E₂ = .60, E = .56
=
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (2,3)
Plan:
12
Design SR3:
v = 4,
r = 6,
k = 2,
b = 12
m= 2,
n = 2,
A₁
=
0,
λε
=
23
=
18
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/2, H= 9, A
E,= .50, E₂ = .67, E = .60
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (2,2)
Plan: Repeat the plan of SR1 three times.
Design SR4: v = 4,
r = 8,
k = 2,
m= 2,
n = 2,
A₁
=
0,
b= 16
=
λε 4
2
135
462
135
135
624
624
246
246
135
3
5
135
135
492
m= 2,
Design SR8:
v = 6,
r = 9,
k = 2,
n = 3, λ₁
=
0, A2
b= 27
3
81/2
c₁ = 0, c₂ =
1/3, H= 27/2, A =
E= .50, E, .60, E = .56
=
=
= 18
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (2,3)
Plan:
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/2, H= 12, A = 32
E, .50, E,= .67, E = .60
Solution:
Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (2,2)
Plan: Repeat the plan of SR1 four times.
Design SR5:
C 1
=
V= 4, r = 10, k= 2,
b= 20
m= 2, n= 2, λι
=
0, A2
= 5
232
0, c₂ = 1/2, H= 15, A= 50
E,= .50, E₂ = .67, E= .60
2
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (2,2)
246
492
624
135
135
135
635
145
236
246
135
5
6
135
6
492
6
492
135
624
135
2
124
141
\n--- PAGE 00000154 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs - Continued
λε
b= 16
=
1
= 40
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (2,5)
Duplicate the plan of SR11.
Design SR9:
V=
8,
r =
4,
k = 2,
m= 2,
n = 4,
λ₁
=
0,
=
8
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/4, H= 6, ▲ =
-
E, .50, E,= .57, E = .54
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design LS28
= : 12
Groups:
(2,4)
Plan:
8
6
1
4286
1357
2468
1357
5
7
1357
8642
3
1357
2
7
6884
Design SR10: v= 8,
m= 2,
r = 8,
n = 4,
k = 2,
λ₁
= 0,
20
λε
b= 32
=
22
Plan:
Design SR13: v= 12,
r = = 6,
k = 2,
b= 36
m= 2,
n = 6,
λ₁
=
€0,
λ21
=
31
CI
=
= 0, c₂= 1/6, H= 9, A 18
E= .50, E,= .55, E= .52
= 30
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design LS74
Groups: (2,6)
Plan:
642208
12
10
11
12
135791
422086
135791
135791
11
12
10
6
11
10
12
10
220804
135791
208642
10
13579
C86422
13579
86422
12
10
11
12
11
k = 2,
λ₂ =
0,
b= 49
2
= 1
=
49/2
b= 25
A2 1
=
Design SR14: v= 14, r = 7,
n = 7,
m= 2,
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/7, H= 21/2, A
E,= .50, E,= .54, E= .52
2
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 42
Dual: Design LS84
Groups: (2,7)
Plan:
1
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/4, H= 12, A = 32
E= .50, E,= .57, E= .54
=
= 24
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (2,4)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of SR9.
Design SR11: v= 10, r = 5,
с =
1
k = 2,
m= 2,
n = 5,
λ₁
0,
=
25/2
0, c₂= 1/5, H= 15/2, A
=
E, .50, E, .56, E= .53
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 20
Dual: Design LS51
Groups: (2,5)
Plan:
10
9 6
42086
1
6
3
4
5 2
7
10
9 8
13579
20804
3 10
13579
13579
86428
13579
9 10
08642
1 10
5
9 2
Design SR12: v= 10, r = 10, k = 2,
b = 50
m= 2,
= 5, A₁
n=
=
0,
2
=
52
=
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/5, H= 15, A 50
= .50, E₂= .56, E = .53
E-
1 4
14
11
357913
5 12
10
357913
2420864
5 14
12
9 10
11
1357913
24208
14
12
10
6424208
11 12
8642429
1357913
9 14
6
13 10
1 10
12
14
8
6
1357923
2086424
1357913
PRO+242
1357913
14
12
10
12
10
13 14
11
4208642
142
\n--- PAGE 00000155 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs - Continued
Design SR15: v= 16,
m= 2,
r = 8,
n = 8,
k = 2,
λ,
b= 64
=
- 0,
2
= 1
= 32
c₁ = 0, c₂= 1/8, H= 12, A
E= .50, E,= .53, E= .52
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 56
Dual: Design LS102
Groups: (2,8)
Plan:
79
8
17 18
9 10
9 6
1 16
11
8
11 4
3 14
13
6
13 2
5 12
15
4
15 18
7 10
17
2
17 16
9 8
1 18
1
14
11
6
3 16
3 12
13 4
5
14
5 10
15
2
7 12
1
2
1
3
16
5
14
7 12
16
9
10
14
11
8
12
13
6
10
15
4
8
10
14
13579135
08642442
135791EE
642K420"
13579135
16
11
14
13
12
15
16
4
2
16
14
12
10
11
135
894
13579E
1
12
10
5
2 7
16
9
14
11
8
13
12
13
16
6 15
10
15
14
13579135
208642
16
14
12
10
PL208642
135
5
7
9
10
12
42080426
Note: If the nine replications are placed in a hori.
zontal line, then each of the resulting nine
rows will comprise a complete replication.
Design SR17: v= 20, r = 10, k = 2,
m= 2, n = 10, λ₁ 0,
=
b= 100
A₂ = 1
C=
0, c₂- 1/10, H= 15, A = 50
E,= .50, E,= .53, E = .51
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 90
Dual: Design LS137
Groups: (2,10)
15
135
Plan:
1
3 20
22
1
3
4
5 18
5
2
7
16
Design SR16: v= 18,
r = 9,
k = 2,
m= 2,
n = 9,
λ₂
0,
λε
=
=
b= 81
:1
9 14
11
12
c₁ = 0, c₂ =
=
1/9, H= 27/2, ▲
E, .50, E, .53, E = .52
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 72
Dual: Design LS119
Groups: (2,9)
=
81/2
3319
10
15
17
K420864
7
20
9
18
11 16
13 14
15 12
17
10
19
8
1357913479
10
8
6
4
2
20
18
16
14
12
4208642289
1357913470
14
12
10
18
16
4
2
20
18
Plan:
11
135791337
2
3 18
5 16
7 14
9
12
10
8
6
4
613554RRE
11 12
13 10
17
5 18
7 16
9 14
2086420KL
3
4
16
13579
86
4
135
12
10
2 7
20
9
5
2
14
11
18 11
7 18
12
13
16 13
9 16
10
15
14 15
18
11
14
8 17
12 17
16
13
12
6
19
10 19
2000+2ORKL
8
6
4
14
135791347°
16
12
10
20
CLEOBO+228
14
135t
3
5
7
9
6 11
4
18 19
13378
15
15 10
17 8
1
6
13 14
15 12
17 10
1 8
3 6
13
5 4
7 2
9 18
11 16
S7G135713
9
18
16
15 14
17 12
1 10
371357-13
64286428
15
16
3
17 14
1 12
10
8
6
11
13579I3579
18
16
14
289
20 1
18
16 5
35
3
12
14 7
10
12 9
8
10 11
6
8 13
2
64
6 15
4 17
9 4
20
2 19
13 18
28
143
\n--- PAGE 00000156 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs - Continued
Design SR18: v= 6,
c₁ =
=
2,
r =
m= 3,
n = 2,
k = 3,
λ₁
= 0,
b = 4
A2
= 1
=
8/3
0, c₂ 1/2, H= 10/3, A
E= .67, E₂ = .80, E = .77
2
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual:
The BIB design (4,6,3,2,1), Roy and Laha
(1956)
Groups: (3,2)
Plan:
3965
254 ja
1123
4
Design SR19: v= 6,
r = 4,
m= 3,
n = 2,
k = 3,
λ₁ =
b = 8
==
0,
A2 2
=
0, c₂ 1/2, H= 20/3, A
=
32/3
Design SR21: v= 6,
r = 8,
k = 3,
n = 2,
λ₁ = 0,
λ2
=
m= 3,
0, c₂ 1/2, H= 40/3, A = 128/3
E= .67, E₂ = .80, E = .77
b= 16
= 4
Solution 1: True 4-plicate of design SR18;
nonunique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Design S61
Groups: (3,2)
Plan: Repeat the plan of SR18 four times.
Solution 2: True duplicate of design SR19,
Solution 2; nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: A D(4), WHC (1956)
Groups: (3,2)
Plan:
Duplicate the plan of SR19, Solution 2.
C 1
=
E,= .67, E₂ = .80, E = .77
Solution 1: Nonunique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Design S6
Groups: (3,2)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of SR18.
Solution 2:
Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: A D(3)
Groups: (3,2)
Plan: 1 2
25
4 5 6
1 5
4
4
63
25
14
36
63
52
36
52
2 6
1
4
6
=
b=
12
6,
r = 6,
k = 3,
=
0,
λ2
=
3
Design SR22: v= 6,
m= 3,
r = 10, k = 3,
n = 2,
b = 20
A₁
=
0,
A2 5
=
=
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/2, H= 50/3, A 200/3
E,= .67, E₂ = .80, E = .77
Solution 1: Nonunique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Design S106
Groups: (3,2)
Plan: Repeat the plan of SR18 five times.
Solution 2:
Nonunique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,2)
Plan: Design SR18 once and its complement
repeated four times.
Solution 3:
Nonunique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,2)
Plan:
Design SR18 repeated twice and its
complement repeated three times.
Design SR20: v=
n = 2, A₁
m= 3,
c = 0, c₂ = 1/2, H= 10, A = 24
E,= .67, E₂ = .80, E = .77
Solution 1: True triplicate of SR18; nonunique;
2-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Design S27
Groups: (3,2)
Plan:
Repeat the plan of SR18 three times.
Solution 2: Dual of an affine resolvable
incomplete block design due to Roy
(1954b); nonunique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual:
An affine resolvable design with four
distinct A's, P. M. Roy (1954b)
Groups: (3,2)
3ª
k =
3,
b= 9
=
0,
2
= 1
n = 3, A₁
m 3,
Design SR23: v= 9,
r =
C₁ =
0,
c₂= 1/3, H= 5, A =
.67, E₂ = .75, E = .73
6
E,
Solution:
Unique; affine resolvable, Saraf (1961)
Complement: Design SR65
Dual: Truly self dual, P. M. Roy (1954b) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (3,3)
Plan: 1 2 3
1 2 3
1 2
6
2 4 6
2 4
6
1
3 5
3
4
5
3
4
5
2
3 4
1 5
6
1
5
6
4 5 6
(Plan continued on next page)
144
\n--- PAGE 00000157 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs - Continued
Plan:
8
9
7
168
645
123
3
699
347
125
7
945
8
7
836
125
Design SR26: v= 12, r = 4,
k = 3,
b= 16
m= 3,
n = 4,
λ₁ = 0,
λ₂
= 1
To construct, use
8
Set 3.1
once
Set 3.3
once
Set 3.4
once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design SR24: v= 9,
r = 6,
k= 3,
b= 18
m 3,
n = 3,
λ =
· 0,
1, = 2
c₁ =
=
24
0, c₂= 1/3, H= 10, A
E, .67, E,
.75, E = .73
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
Complement: Not listed, r
resolvable
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (3,3)
== 12
Plan: Duplicate the plan of SR23.
Solution 2: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2,
Groups: (3,3)
3
0, c₂
1/4, H= 20/3, A = 32/3
E,= .67, E,= .73, E= .71
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: Design LS29, Solution 1 or design LS36,
Solution 1
Groups: (3,4)
Plan:
1 12 11
1389
2722
6 10
1564
3756
2804
9 10
1291
9235
8612
1704
8
9 11
2 12 10
10 11
6479
5312
1892
4 12
Plan:
868
947
987
2
257
143
399
258
147
546
132
589
367
142
9
836
125
168
625
143
7
Solution 2: As given by the dual of design LS29,
Solution 2; nonunique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: Design LS29, Solution 2 or design M16
Groups: (3,4)
Plan: 1
1443852
10
25690Ort
3
6
8
9 11
11
8 10 12
7 12
11223365
814647
12
4 12
6 10
92205
8
7 11
7
9
9
10
Design SR25: v=9,
m= 3,
r = 9,
n = 3, A₁
=
k= 3,
0, A2
b= 27
= 3
c₁ = 0, c,= 1/3, H= 15, A = 54
E,= .67, E,= .75, E = .73
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 18
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (3,3)
Plan: Repeat the plan of SR23 three times.
Solution 2: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 18
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups: (3,3)
Plan:
Design SR27: v= 12, r = 8,
m= 3, n = 4,
A₁
k = 3,
= 0, λ₂
b= 32
=
321
128/3
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/4, H= 40/3, A =
E,= .67, E,= .73, E = .71
Solution 1: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r =24
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (3,4)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of SR26, Solution 1.
Solution 2: Nonunique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 24
Dual:
A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (3,4)
958
247
136
9
868
257
143
369
7
978
564
123
169
583
142
2
3
589
258
367
147
142
2 7
(Plan continued on next page)
145
\n--- PAGE 00000158 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs - Continued
Solution 2:
Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 40
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups: (3,5)
Plan: To the 25 blocks of design SR28 annex
the 25 blocks given below:
1 2 6
10 14
15
Plan: Duplicate the plan of SR26, Solution 2.
Solution 3: As given by John (1966); nonunique;
resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 24
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,4)
Plan:
3692
2581
1470
3692
1470
10
12
2581
1470
2369
10 11
1470
1470
5 10
12
2369
8125
1258
6923
12
11
8125
6923
8 10
12
1470
1258
6 10
11
8 12
5678
1234
9012
11
4 8 12
5678
1234
k = 3,
= 0,
50/3
A2
b = 25
=
1
Design SR28: v= 15,
m= 3,
r = 5,
n = 5,
λι
=
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/5, H= 25/3, A
E= .67, E₂ = .71, E= .70
=
Solution: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design LS52
Groups: (3,5)
Plan:
= = 20
3261
11
48532
01743
9
7 11 12
4
5 15
10 2 3
10 11 9
13 8 15
13 14 12
1
3 7 8
7 14
54281
37401
13
12
1 11 15
43170
39265
13 11 6
90452
3 14
2 15
5 12
4
56
9
14
8
Note: If the five replications displayed here are also
placed in a horizontal line, then each of the
resulting five rows will again comprise a
complete replication.
Design SR30: v= 18,
m= 3,
r = 6,
n = 6,
k = 3,
λ₁ 0,
b= 36
=
A2
= 1
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/6, H= 10, A = 24
E,= .67, E₂ = .71, E = .69
Solution: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 30
Dual: Design LS75
Groups: (3,6)
14658
6 13
29370
3
11
14
15
8 10 12
43261
5 12
8 13
7
9
6 10 11
1 14 15
62135
6 7 8
2 10 15
Plan:
11 12
5
49
4 14
1
13
8
259
11
1
67423
9 10 14
11 13 15
14
1
1 5 6
7 12 14
17 18
4
8 15
3 5 10
4
2 12 13
1
8 9
5
824
3612518
773
15
18
587
6
11
332
2587
3 14
6 17
13 5
15
13
9 7
14
18
13
11
12
17
7
2
9
13
10
12
2
16
17
3
10
5
15
16
14
18
3
7 11
2
4
6
4 8 6
18
10 8
15
11
16
11
9
3
10 11
14
12
6 14 10
17
15
9
17
10
258
6 16
5
16 9
16 12
If the five replications are placed in a hori-
zontal line, then each of the resulting five
rows will comprise a complete replication.
Design SR31: v= 21,
Design SR29: v= 15, r = 10,
MF 3, n=
=
k = 3,
5, λι 0, A2
b= 50
2
r = 7,
m= 3, n = 7,
k = 3,
λ₁
=
=
b= 49
0, λε 1
98/3
=
200/3
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/5, H= 50/3, A =
E, .67, E, .71, E = .70
2
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 40
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (3,5)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of SR28.
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/7, H= 35/3, A
E= .67, E,= .70, E = .69
Solution: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 42
Dual: Design LS85
Groups: (3,7)
(Plan continued on next page)
Note:
146
\n--- PAGE 00000159 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs - Continued
Plan:
7 8 21
10 11 6
13 14 12
258
1 2 9
4 5 15
258
2 19
1
4
11
7
14
10
16 17 18
19 20
03
17 13
20 16
21
6263952
19
5
9
12
1
8 15
Design SR33: v= 27,
m= 3,
r = = 9,
k = 3,
b= 81
n = 9,
λ₁ 0,
=
A2
= 1
18
4
11 21
7
14 6
10
17 12
2
15
36
13 20 18
16 2
3
0
19 8 12
1 11 18
7036
4 14
7 17
10 20 15
13 2 21
283952
19 11
15
1 14
21
4
17
7
20
12
10
2
18
13 5
11
16 5 6
19 17 21
1 20 6
4 2 12
7 5 18
16
8
426283a
19
14
18
1
17
3
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/9, H= 15, A = 54
E= .67, E₂ = .69, E = .68
Solution:
Complement: Not listed, r = 72
Dual: Design LS120
Groups: (3,9)
Resolvable
4 20
9
7
2 15
Plan:
10 5 21
1
2
1 5
1
8 12
13
8
6
4
5
12
4
8
15
4
11 18
9
16
11 12
7
8 18
7
11 21
7
14
24
10 11 24
10 14
27
10
17
19
22 23 21
10
8 3
12222
13 14 3
13 17 6
13
20 9
16 17 9
16 20 12
16
23
14305
20
15
19
23
18
19
26 21
22
26
24
22
2 27
25 26 27
25
3
25
5 6
13 11 9
16
14 15
15
21
27
Design SR32: v= 24,
m= 3,
r = 8,
n = 8,
k = 3,
b = 64
6
λ₁
=
0,
A2
= 1
12
18
16
-
2
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/8, H= 40/3, ▲ =
E,= .67, E₂ = .70, E = .69
Solution:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 56
Dual: Design LS103
128/3
24 19
3
9 25
147030022
11
18
1
14
21
14
24
4
17
27 4 20
17
3
7
20
6
20
9
10
23
23
15
13
26
18
26
21
16
2
24
2
27 19
5
3 19
5
6 22
8
12
25
11
15
M255TULAT
23
12 10 26
13
9 22 11
122825∞IL
17
14
23
Groups: (3,8)
26
Plan: 1 11 12
3 19 17
5 22 18
6 23
24 8
14 9 10
15 20 13
21 2
16
27847ORK
1 5 6
24 19 20
11 22 21
12
4 2
14 7 3
15 8 10
17 9 13
23 18 16
15894722
1 24 23
22025
21
5 16 15
8
6 19
11
9 22
2
14
12
1470362
8 9
1 2
15
17
7 6 20
11 18
10 12
2
16 20
1703
85632 R128
10 17 21
13 18
16 11
14 19 12
19 23 21
22
24 14
17 18
9 23
15 23 22
24 4
11 13 24
32200225
3 11
7 12
20 18 10
13 14
1 14 15
17
230622020
24 1
23
4
26
9 7
222
262
27 1
26
3
2
12 7
5
15
15 10
5 18 10
8
21
13
8
24 13
27 16
11
3 16
19
14
9
19
22
17
18 25
20
321
220
15
21 25
22222
11
27
14 6
17
12 19
20
18
23 24 25
147036022
8 3 22
9 20 4
8
21 5 7
9
11 6 10
23 12 13
17 24 16
18
2 19
10 24
5 3
12 16 8
16 14
6
19 5 9
21
222
19 15 11
17 22 6
20
22 12
4 8
18 4 14
2 7 15
L3H22782
1 20 21
10 23
147
\n--- PAGE 00000160 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs - Continued
Design SR34: v= 30,
m= 3,
r = 10, k = 3,
n = 10, A₁ : 0,
b= 100
=
=
2 1
Design SR36: v= 8,
MF 4,
r = 4,
k = 4,
b= 8
n = 2,
λ₁ = 0,
λ₂
= 2
1
5
1
8
1 11
12
1
14 15
36925
= 0, c₂ 1/10, H= 50/3, A = 200/3
2
E, .67, E₂ = .69, E = .68
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design LS138
Groups: (3,10)
Plan: 1 2
= 90
10 14
6
19 23 6
10 17 9
19 26 9
10 20 12
19 29 12
10 23 15
22
2 12
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/2, H= 7, A = 12
E,= .75, E,= .86, E= .84
Solution 1:
Nonunique; affine resolvable,
Saraf (1961)
Complement: Truly self complementary, Preece
(1967)
Dual: Truly self dual, P. M. Roy (1954b) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (4,2)
10 26 18
22
5 15
1 17
18
10 29 21
22
8 18
Plan:
1 20
21
13
2 21
22
11 21
26
15
37
3
48
1 23 24
13
5 24
22 14 24
1
26 27
13
8 27
22 17 27
1 29 30
13
11 30
22 20 30
4 2 30
13
14
3
22 23 3
4
5 3
13 17
6
22 26
6
4 8
6
4 11 9
4 14 12
13 20
13 23
13 26 15
9
22 29
9
37
84
2 7 8 1
6
8
5
12
25
2 9
25 5 12
4 17 15
13 29 18
25
8 15
48
15
1
5
62
73
15
62
6
2
7
3
4 20 18
16
2 18
25
11 18
4 23 21
16
5 21
25 14 21
4 26 24
16
8 24
25 17 24
4 29 27
16
11 27
25 20 27
7 2 27
16 14 30
25 23 30
7 5 30
7 8 3
7 11 6
7 14 9
16 17 3
16 20 6
16 23 9
16 26 12
25 26 3
7
17
7 20 15
7 23 18
7 26
7 29
10 2 24
10 5 27
2412222
16 29 15
19
2 15
25 29
28 2 6
28 5 9
28 8 12
28 11 15
6
Solution 2:
Adapted from solution by Connor
(1952); nonunique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: A D(3)
Groups: (4,2)
Plan:
19
5 18
28 14 18
3165
1347
3
1
6
5
8279
19
8 21
28 17 21
19 11 24
28 20 24
19 14 27
28 23 27
19 17 30
28 26 30
10 8 30
19 20 3
28 29 3
5341
4872
2568
8452
3617
10 11 3
=
4
2
642
Design SR35: v=
=
c, 4/7, c2:
E,
.87,
5/7, H= 45/4, ▲ =
E₂ = .91, E= .90
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Design SR6
Dual: Design LS72
Groups: (2,3)
Plan:
153
153
153
426
315
642
315
264
426
2
264
315
6,
m= 2,
r =
6,
n = 3,
k = 4,
λ₁
b= 9
Design SR37: v=
=
3,
=
63/2
4
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/2, H= 21/2, A = 27
E, .75, E, .86, E= .84
Solution:
2-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (4,2)
Plan:
8,
m= 4,
r =
6,
k = 4,
b= 12
n = 2,
A₁ 0,
=
A2 = 3
132112
455323
113412
788875
667644
486788
335677
224565
148
\n--- PAGE 00000161 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs - Continued
Design SR38: v = 8,
m= 2,
r = 6,
n = 4,
k = 4,
λι 2,
b
=
12
=
A2
=
3
2/5, C2
=
11/20, H= 11, A = 30
E= .83, E₂ = .87, E= .85
2
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
affine resolvable, Saraf (1961)
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Design SR66, P. M. Roy (1954b)
Groups: (2,4)
Plan:
15
32
7
6
48
84
62
37
15
Solution 2:
Nonunique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: A D(4), WHC (1956)
Groups: (4,2)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of SR36, Solution 2.
Design SR40: v= 8,
r = 10,
n = 2,
m= 4,
k =
4, b= 20
λ₁
=
0,
λε 5
=
5-resolvable
=
75
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/2, H= 35/2, A
E= .75, E,= .86, E = .84
Solution:
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups:
Plan:
(4,2)
6
88
24
57
5
57
13
8
6
3
88
13
42
75
13
86
24
75
13
3
6 1
8 3
88
42
Solution 2: Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,4)
Plan:
688787
375665
224454
111332
6
488878
357567
246354
111223
7 8
6
88
376566
487788
37
48
78
86
87
58
8
8
87
57
65
74
36
47
65
224455
26
42
43
53
25
36
3
34
111233
15
31
1
72
2
17
14
4
2
27
1
12
2
Solution 3:
Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,4)
Plan: 1 2 3 4
1
2 3
6
1 4 5
6
1
2 5
8
1 6
8
1
4
7 8
2
3 7
8
3
4
6 7
3 4 5 8
3
5 6
8
2
5 6
7
2
4
5
7
Design SR41: v= 12,
r = 3,
k = 4,
b=9
m= 4, n = 3,
λ₁
=
0,
λα 1
=
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/3, H= 21/4, A
E,= .75, E₂ = .82, E= .80
= 27/4
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design SR90
Dual: The BIB design (9,12,4,3,1), Roy and Laha
(1956)
Groups: (4,3)
Design SR39: v = 8,
r = 8,
m= 4,
n = 2,
k = 4,
λ₁
=
0, A2
=
b= 16
4
Plan:
1
=
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/2, H= 14, ▲ ·
E.75, E, .86, E = .84
Solution 1: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (4,2)
= 48
7
6 11
1
11
5
10 9
2017SP123
1
10 12
9
5
359623ONO
444∞∞∞222
8
8
8
7 12
6 12
Plan:
Duplicate the plan of SR36, Solution 1.
149
\n--- PAGE 00000162 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs - Continued
r = 6,
MF 4, n = 3,
k = 4,
λ₁
=
0,
A2
b= 18
2
=
1
10 7 12
5
2 11
96
3
248
Design SR42: v= 12,
C₁ =
0, c₂ 1/3, H= 21/2, A = 27
E,= .75, E₂ = .82, E = .80
Solution 1: Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: Design S37
Groups: (4,3)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of SR41.
Solution 2: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Not a D(x), x =
= 12
1, 2, 3
Groups:
(4,3)
Plan:
200
6
10
159
159
482
371
12
10
6
5
11
260
9 10
713
7 12 9
482
137
020
159
824
713
11
12
3
137
248
371
602
5 10
159
11
159
824
3 12
248
7 12
1 10
5 2
6
6
5 10
2
Não
Design SR44: v= 16, r = 4,
k = 4,
= 16
m= 4,
n=
4, λι
=
0, A2
=
1
=
12
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/4, H= 7, ▲
E= .75, E,= .80, E= .79
Solution:
2
Affine resolvable, Saraf (1961)
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: Truly self dual, P. M. Roy (1954b) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (4,4)
Plan: To construct, use
Set 4.1 once
Set 4.3
once
Set 4.4
once
Set 4.5
once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design SR45: v= 16,
r = 8,
m= 4, n = 4,
k = 4,
b= 32
λ₁
=
0,
λ2
= 2
Design SR43: v=
=
12,
m= 4,
r = 9,
n = 3,
0, c₂= 1/3, H= 63/4, A
E,= .75, E,= .82, E = .80
k = 4,
A₁ 0,
=
=
243/4
Solution 1: Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 18
Dual: Design S91
Groups: (4,3)
A2
=
23
Solution:
Resolvable
b= 27
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/4, H= 14, A = 48
E,= .75, E,= .80, E = .79
Complement: Not listed, r = 24
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of SR44.
Plan: Repeat the plan of SR41 three times.
Solution 2: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 18
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3, 4
Groups: (4,3)
Plan:
200
159
200
159
200
159
482
371
6
7
9 10 11
159
248
824
602
371
11
3
824
12
482
6
10
10
11 12
3 12
7
482
713
020
159
6 3 12
6
9 10 11
9
1
6
10
5 10
9 2
1 10
5 2
9
6 11
6
7 12
248
137
824
713
159
9 2
10
6 11
3 12
Groups: (4,4)
Design SR46: v= 20, r = 5,
k = 4,
mF 4, n = 5,
λ₁
= 0,
A2
75/4
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/5, H= 35/4, A =
E,= .75, E,= .79, E = .78
Solution:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design LS53
Groups: (4,5)
Plan:
1 19 20 18
6 16 17 11
16785
B=230
5 2 12
= 20
1 12 10 11
16 3 18 5
4 19 6 9
14
9
14 20
15 13
4 10
15 2
7 13
8 17
1 2
19 12
20 15
10 16
18 11
34593
17
47678
1
12
13
10 17
11
69275
7 8
18 15
19 16
3 20
4 14
b= 25
= 1
(Plan continued on next page)
150
\n--- PAGE 00000163 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs - Continued
JUE
1 16 14 15
9 20 11
13 6 12
52340
17 18
7
5 19
8 10
Design SR49: v= 32,
m= 4,
r = 8,
n = 8,
k = 4,
b= 64
λ₁ = 0,
λ₂ = 1
Design SR47: v= 20, r = 10, k = 4,
m= 4, n = 5,
λ₁
=
0,
A₂ = 2
Plan:
c₁ =
0, c₂
1/5, H= 35/2, A 75
E‚= .75, E,= .79, E = .78
Solution:
Resolvable
=
Complement: Not listed, r = 40
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (4,5)
Duplicate the plan of SR46.
b= 50
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/8, H= 14, A = 48
.75, E,= .77, E= .77
E,
Solution:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r =56
Dual: Design LS104
Groups: (4,8)
Plan: 1 14 15 16
25 22 3 28
29
5
9
13
17
21
ស ៩២៩៩១ និ
6 23
4
30 7 24
10
31 8
11
32
26
19
12
27
20
19372225
Design SR48: v= 28, r = 7,
n= 7,
k = 4,
b= 49
6
m= 4,
λ
=
0, A2
= 1
26
31
14 27 32
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/7, H= 49/4, A
E,= .75, E,= .78, E = .77
=
Solution: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 42
Dual: Design LS86
147/4
18
10
19
22
30 23
Groups: (4,7)
31 32
19 28 21
Plan: 1 6 7 8
1 24 22 23
24 11 26 25
14 12 27 5
15 2 28 9
16 18 3 13
22 19 4 17
23 20 10 21
10 28
11 4
12 18
19 14 13
26 20 15 17
27
2 16
2359356
7
3
25
11
6
7
15
8
23 16 13
27
PER 2222402
7
8
24
2 15 28
3 16
20 17
12
1
25
8 29
3 12 5
9
17 18
13259324220
18
10
26
BOEK 22
14
23
6
31
26
21
12
1 28 26 27
9 14 4 23
13 15 6 24
17 16 10 7
18 21 11 8
19 25 2 12
20 5 3 22
1 2 3 4
32
6 28 21 19
20
7 14 25 20
8 15 5
16 22 9 11
26 23 13 12
24
10
16
8
4
27 24 17 18
28
15937222
10 11
22 19
14
6
2
26
30
18
1°24733
15
8
222 2222 2222+-2 FREE2250
RED 22202**
3
4
26
7 32
27 8
10 23
28
14 11
24
18 15
12
30 19
16
6
31
20
19 20 1
24 29
11 4 5
6 27 12 9
28 13
30 15 8 17
31 16
21
23 32 25
24
11 28
15 20
12
3 32
4
19 8 25 14
26
27 16 5 10
28 1 26 27
13 30 3
4 17 14 31
32 21 10 15
16
12 29
24 9
1937222 222RE
22
30
2
6
18
6 11
7
18 23
19
1 14 15 16
24 10 9 19
11 13 20
12 17
6
21 26 7
1802122
69234∞∞
22 25 27 8
1 10 11 12
7 13 22
17 23 2
3 14
21 24
18 25 4 15
26 19 5 16
23
5 28 18
18 19 20
27 20 6 9
1937225
3 8 26
4 27 10
28 14 11
22 15 12
25 23 6 16
2 24
7
151
\n--- PAGE 00000164 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs - Continued
Design SR50: v= 36,
r = 9,
k = 4,
b= 81
m= 4,
n = 9,
λ₁
=
- 0,
2
= 1
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/9, H= 63/4, A
E,= .75, E₂ = .77, E = .77
Solution:
Resolvable
=
Complement: Not listed, r = 72
Dual: Design LS121
Groups: (4,9)
243/4
Design SR51: v= 40, r = 10,
m= 4, n = 10, λ₁
k = 4,
b= 100
= 0,
2
= 1
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/10, H= 35/2, A = 75
E= .75, E₂ = .77, E= .76
2
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design LS139
Groups: (4,10)
= 90
Plan: 1 2 3 4
21
2
15 36
1
Plan:
187887845
2
26 31 21
27 32
28 34 29
6
35
36
9 23
13
15 30 17
~22232227
4
1 26
27 28
16
15 22
21 20
25
18
16 23 25 30
19
6 24
29
31
33
20
7 10
33
32
5
8
11 5
6 27 32
1 10 23 36
1 14 19 40
1 18 39 8
1 22 35 16
1 26 31 24
1 30 7 12
21
6 11 40
21 10 39 28
21
14 35 8
10
9 12
34
3
1 34 11 20
21
21 22 23 24
21 26 19 32
21 30 27 4
21 34
18 31 16
3 12
24
11
13
18
35
4
1 38 15 28
21 38
7 20
12
14 19
36
17
5
2
5
31 28
6 7 8
25 2
25 6 19 36
23
32
1 6 7 8
1 10
11
12
5 10
3 32
25 10 15 40
30 24 19 33
31 5 20 34
23 20 17 26
24 34
5 14 27 36
25 14 39 4
21 27
5 18 23 40
25 18 35 12
32 9 14 35
26 13 15 36
27 17 16 2
25 35 2 28
5 22 39 12
25 22 31 20
29 36
3
30
5 26 35 20
25 26 27 28
33 14
4 31
5 30 11 16
25 30 3 8
28 21 10
3
5 15
6 32
5 34 15 24
25 34 7 16
25 22 11
29 23 18 12
+2
4
9 16
7 18
5 38 19 4
25 38 11 24
22
13 8 19
9 2 35 24
9 6 31 4
1 23 24 22
34 11 16 33
35 12 26 5
36 6 27 9
13 7 28 30
17 18 8 31
21 19 2 32
25 20 3 14
29 10 4 15
1 34
11 30 20
12 31 2 13
22 32
35 36
9 10
9
9 14
11 12
7 32
9 18
3 36
3 17
9 22
27 40
23 6
4 21
9 26 39 16
26 24
14 27
15 28 18 33
16 10 19 5
7 25
9 30
15 20
29 2 11 8
29 6 15 12
29 10 19 16
29 14 23 20
29 18 27 24
29 22 3 28
29 26 7 4
29 30 31 32
8 29
9 34 19 28
29 34 35 36
9
38 23 8
29 38 39 40
13 2 39 20
33 2 19 12
13
6 35 28
33
6 23 16
1 30 31 32
35 22 16 29
36 23 2 33
26
18 24 3 5
19 26 4 9
23 34
10 20 27 13
24 35
11 28 6 17
18 36
12 14 7 21
19 12
34 15 8 25
20
+~+8*3822
1 14 15 16
8 33
13
10 31 8
33
10 27 20
13
14 15 16
33 14 3 24
27 4 30 5
13 18 11 32
33 18 7 28
22 28 31 9
13
22 7 36
33 22 11 4
32
13
13
26 3 40
33 26 15 8
10 17
13
30 19 24
33 30 35 40
11 21
13
34 23 4
33 34 39 32
6 25
13 38 27 12
33 38 31 36
7 29
17
2 7 40
37 2 27 16
17
6 39 24
37 6 3 20
6
1 18 19 20
28 14 23 5
24 15 2 9
16 3 13
4 17
34 7
35 30 8 21
36 31 10 25
26 32 11 29
27 22 12 33
17
10 35 4
37 10 7 24
17
22
14 31 12
17 18 19 20
17 22 15 32
17 26 11 36
17 30 23 28
17 34 27 8
17 38 3 16
37 14 11 28
37 18 15 4
37 22 19 8
37 26 23 12
37 30 39 36
37 34 31 40
37 38 35 32
152
\n--- PAGE 00000165 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs - Continued
Design SR52: v= 10,
r = 4,
k = 5,
b= 8
m= 5,
n = 2,
λι = 0,
2
= 2
C1 0, c₂= 1/2, H= 36/5, A = 64/5
E= .80, E₂ = .89, E = .88
Solution:
2-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary, Preece (1967)
Dual: A D(3)
Groups: (5,2)
Plan:
4 5
9 5
9 10
4 10
3883
2727
1616
5599
4 10
9449
3883
7272
1616
9
10
6
Design SR53: v=
=
10, r = 6,
n = 2, λ₁
m= 5,
0, c₂= 1/2, H= 54/5, A =
E= .80, E,= .89, E = .88
Solution:
Nonresolvable
k = 5,
b = 12
=
0,
A2 3
=
144/5
Complement: Truly self complementary, Preece
(1967)
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (5,2)
Plan:
10
5
9 10
5
6
4 10
3 4 10
8
49
5
8 9 10
3
94
5
49
38
27
Plan:
16
1
2
6
94
83
27
6
91
27
16
27
16
6
1
6
Solution 3:
38
72
94
16
83
72
16
94
38
72
16
16
72
5
5
4 10
4 5
9 10
7 3 9 10
83
5
8 4 10
9
5
Nonunique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Self complementary
Dual: Design M3la
Groups:
Plan:
(5,2)
10
1 2
1 7
8
3
4 5
9 10
6 2
9 10
o550
9449
8338
2727
1916
9 10
9 5
4 10
4 10
9 5
3883
2727
6
6 7
1911
6 7 8 4 5
2727
1966
4664
3883
4 10
9 5
9 5
4 10
Design SR55: v= 10,
r = 10, k = 5,
b=20
m= 5, n = 2, λ₁ = 0, λ₂ = 5
E, .80, E,
0, c₂ = 1/2, H= 18, A= 80
.89, E = .88
772722277722
1961-IGO6919
3883 ∞∞∞∞∞∞∞ 3
8
3
3
3
8
8
44494 POPO690
4 10
5
9 10
10
5
4 10
5
5
5
8 9 10
5
m= 5,
r = 8,
n = 2,
k = 5,
λι = 0,
b= 16
λη
= 4
2
Design SR54: v= 10,
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/2, H= 72/5, A = 256/5
E,
.80, E,
Solution 1:
.89, E = .88
Nonunique; 2-resolvable
compelment: Truly self complementary
Dual: A D(4), WHC (1956)
Groups: (5,2)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of SR52.
Solution 2: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary, Preece
(1967)
Groups: (5,2)
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary, Preece
(1967)
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (5,2)
Plan:
1
271894ROMO~238545OLO
1
46723855-6723∞aago
10
10
10
6
5
10
7
10
9
7
9 10
10
10
6
5
334699-L2Santaro782
7
1
1
54896123O+3S-OTOT∞29
1955
10
782234496668193
10
153
\n--- PAGE 00000166 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs - Continued
Design SR56: v= 15,
r = 6,
k = 5,
b= 18
m= 5,
n = 3,
λ₁ = 0,
A2
= 2
144/5
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/3, H= 54/5, ▲ =
E,
.80, E₂ = .86, E= .85
2
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 12
Dual: A D(3), Speckman (1970)
1
6
11
1
6
11
12 8 9
13
∞33
505
14 10
4 15
227
227
2 13
2 13
8
227
161
15
550
494
3 14 10
14 10
449
833
955
15
11
Groups: (5,3)
Plan: 1
6
11 12
383
272
4 5
9 10
13
14
15
722
3 14
15
8
4
5
2 13
9
10
11
272
161
227
161
1
6
11
1
6 12
11
722
338
9 5
3 14 10
4 15
16
11
8 14 10
7 13 4 15
3
9
5
12 13 4 10
227
338
494
14
944
2 13 14
833
055
15
15
550
4 10
Design SR58: v= 20, r = 4,
m= 5, n= 4,
k = 5,
λ = 0,
b= 16
2
= 1
=
64/5
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/4, H= 36/5, A
E= .80, E₂ = .84, E= .84
Solution:
2
Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: The BIB design (16,20,5,4,1), Roy and Laha
Groups:
(1956)
(5,4)
Plan: Cyclically develop modulo 15 the initial
block
4 12 13 15
to obtain 15 blocks of size k' = 4. Then
to these blocks cyclically annex an
additional new treatment in the order
16, 17, 18, 19, 20,
cycling three times. Finally, annex the
set of five new treatments as the 16th
block.
Solution 2: John's (1966) solution put into
resolvable form; resolvable
= 12
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), Speckman (1970)
Groups: (5,3)
Plan:
145
4
5
299
082
371
494
383
272
6
194
383
5
10
10 14
8 15
12 13
12
2
14 15 7 11
12
494
161
10
14 15
111
505
789
456
123
383
13
722
6
7 14
10
11
4
15
1
585
9 13
Design SR57: v= 15, r = 9,
m= 5,
n = 3,
λ₁
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/3, H= 81/5, A
E, .80, E,= .86, E = .85
Solution:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
k = 5,
=
14
6 10
4 11 15
1
5
Design SR59: v= 20,
m= 5,
r = 8, k = 5,
=
n = 4, λ₁
b= 32
0,
A2 2
=
272
256/5
6 13
3
8 12
10 13
11 14
9 12 15
= 0, λ2
=
324/5
-= 18
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3, 4
Groups: (5,3)
Plan:
383
494
10
14 15
3 14 15
b= 27
=
23
9 10
14 15
= 0, c₂= 1/4, H= 72/5, A =
= .80, E₂ = .84, E = .84
E,=
2
Solution 1: Nonunique; 4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 24
Dual: Design S74
Groups:
(5,4)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of SR58.
Solution 2: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 24
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups: (5,4)
Plan: 1
6
11
2727
3
8
5
1 17 13 9 10
12
9 10
13 14 15
16 17 18 19 20
3030
2727
4
5
1
6 17
13 4 10
11
9 15
16
14
5
383
13
272
161
505
272
161
338
722
338
722
161
10
6 12
11
550
449
383
272
161
61
15
1
5
6 12
4 10
11
9
14
338
722
1
6
11
14 5
4 10
9 15
404 40
1626
7272
18 4 5
3 19 20
94
16
8 14 15
18
14 20
13
19 15
7272
1616
8383
4 10
9 5
14 10
8 19
5
13 4 20
11 17
18
9 15
16 12
1
6
11
16
2721
18
13
2505
9414
8383
9 20
1
15
6
10
11
16
7272
18
13
∞383
4 15
9 20
14
5
3 19 10
(Plan continued on next page)
154
\n--- PAGE 00000167 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs - Continued
1
12
6
17
11
2 18
838
14
9
644
19 15
20
16
7
13 4 10
5250
1
7 13
19 5
6
11
17
27
18
14 10
3
9 15
16 12
8
4 20
1
17
29 12 11
30 13 16 24
14 21 7 25
18
19 20
35 23
15 26 32 8
27 31 33 9
2223454
1432223
1 12 13 14 15
34 25
8 16 27
35 9 21 28 2
10 26
31 30 4 18
29 3 17
23 6 5 19
33 24
7 11 20
Design SR60: v= 25,
r = 5,
m= 5, n = 5,
k = 5,
λ₁ = 0,
b = 25
28
6 34
10 22
λ2
= 1
1
25 22
23 24
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/5, H= 9, A =
=
20
11
3 30 9 32
Solution:
Complement: Not listed, r = 20
Dual: Self dual, P. M. Roy (1954b)
Groups: (5,5)
=
E, .80, E2-
.83, E.83
Affine resolvable, Saraf (1961)
16
4 10
33 12
21
5 34 17 13
26 27 35
18 14
31 28 7
19 15
6
2 29 8 20
Plan:
To construct, use
Design SR63: v= 40, r = 8, k = 5,
m= 5, n = 8, λ₁ = 0,
b= 64
λ₂ = 1
Set 5.1 once
Set 5.5 once
Set 5.3 once
Set 5.6 once
c₁ =
E,
Set 5.4
once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design SR61: v= 25,
c₁ =
=
r = 10,
k =
m= 5, n = 5, X₁ = 0,
5,
A2
= 2
=
0, c₂ 1/5, H= 18, A 80
E= .80, E,= .83, E = .83
Solution:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 40
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (5,5)
b= 50
0, C2
1/8, H= 72/5, A 256/5
.80, E₂ = .82, E = .82
Solution:
Complement: Not listed, r = 56
Dual: Design LS105
=
==
Resolvable
Groups: (5,8)
Plan: 1 17 18 19
25 34 3 31 27
7 35 4 36 28
8 5 37 6 29
9 38 12 11 30
10 22 39 13 16
23 32 40 14 21
24 33 2 15 26
1
38 39 40 37
Plan:
Design SR62: v= 35, r = 7,
m= 5, n= 7,
Duplicate the plan of SR60.
34
k = 5,
λ₁ = 0,
b= 49
7 30 26 23
12 35 8
13 9 36
31 24
2 25
A2
= 1
14 10 6 3 17
15 27 11
4 18
2
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/7, H= 63/5, A
E= .80, E₂ = .82, E = .82
=
196/5
29 21
32 28 16 5 19
33
22 20
222222222222222
20
1 7 8 9 10
38 29 15 31 32
39 30 17 36 33
40 18 6 2 34
19 22 11 3 35
20 23 12 16 4
27 24 13 21 5
37 28 25 14 26
1 12 13 14 15
6 39 35 23 27
11
16
17 40 24 28
18 25 29 7
21
19 2 30 8
26 20 32 3 9
31 37 33 4 10
36 38 34 5 22
Solution:
Complement: Not listed, r = 42
Dual: Design LS87
Groups: (5,7)
Plan: 1 7 8
Resolvable
10
29 25 13 32 31
17 30 14 33 6
18 15
19 22
20 27
28 24 12
342322
2 34 11
1 29 30 27 28
12 34 3 20 31
13 35 4 6
14 5 22 11
7
1 2
25 39 11 8 32
40 16 9 27 33
21 10 28 34 12
29 26 35 17 13
22 31 30 18 14
23 37 36 19 15
24 38 6 7 20
3
4
5
1 25
22
23 24
29 12 3 40 36
30 13 4 32 6
14 5 33 7 11
15 34 17 8 16
37 35 18 9 21
27 38 19 10 26
28 2 39 20 31
8
3 35 16
15 23 17 16
9
1 29 30 27 28
1 34 35 32 33
4 21
32 24 18 21 10
34 11 13 20
37
3
5 26
33 2 25 19 26
35 16
14 38
2
17
30 16 37 24
4 21 38 25
21 15
7 39
3
1 34 35 32 33
25 11
16 18
17 4 28
21 19 12
247834
14 10
15 27
352223
29
8 30
22 26 20 13 9
23 31
24 6
19 27 11 13
20 32 28 16 14
33 29 21 15 22
17890233
2 3 4
5
26 22
8 40
4
18 5 26 39 12
19 31 7 40 13
34 30 26 23
31
23 17 9
5
20 27 36
8 14
17 35 31 24
32 36 24 18 10
28
6 9
15 22
18 6 12 25
33
6 25 12 19
2 29
11
10 23
155
\n--- PAGE 00000168 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs - Continued
=
Groups: (5,9)
Plan: 1 2
3 4
5
1 32
33
34 35
32 38 26
15
19
24 26
45
27 18
33 39 31
22 20
25 31 37
28 19
34 40 36
23 42
7 36
38
29 20
35
7 41
24 43
8 12
39
30 41
b= 81
Design SR64: v= 45,
m= 5,
r = 9,
n = 9,
k = 5,
λ₁
=
0,
A2 1
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/9, H= 81/5, A
E= .80, E,= .82, E = .81
Solution:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design LS122
= 72
324/5
=
Solution:
Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Design SR23
Dual: Truly self dual
Groups: (3,3)
Plan:
476
9
663
538
327
219
184
598
283
9
1
917
8
154
7
4
746
632
3
132
417
264
689
853
975
2
6
8 27
25 44
9
13 40
2 6
11
9 28
12 45
10
14 42
3 11
16 10 29
13 17
22
15 43
4 16
Design SR66: v= 12, r = 4,
21
37 30
14 18
23
21 44
5 17
m= 6,
1
7
37 29 15 41 23
38 30 6 42 24
39 11 17 43 25
40 16 18 44 32
21 45 19
8
9 10
1
12 13
14 15
28
32 10
21
24
29 33 42
26 25
30 34 43
31
2
36 35 44
37
3
2 33
41 17
45
38 4
12 26 20
3 34
6 18
7
39
5
13
27 31
4 35
11 19
8
40 22
14
28 36
5 22
27
20
9
16 23
1 28 29 30 27
41
42
5 19 13
43 6 32 20 14
44 11 33 7
43
1 42
20 37
2 38 14 25 16
44 45
7
13 24 11
1
15
3 39 15
27 21
45 16 34 37
8
4 40 26 28
7
22 35 38
21
26 23 2 39 10
31 24 3 40 17
36 25 4 18 12
9
5 32 31 29 8
17 33 36
30
9
18 34 41
22
10
7
10
5 12
4 5 12
4 11
10 11
2828
3663
4
10
c₁ = 0, c₂ =
E= .83, E,
Solution:
k = 6,
0, λε
n = 2, λ₁
1/2, H= 22/3, A = 40/3
.91, E = .90
2-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary, Preece
(1967)
Dual: Design SR38, Solution 1
Groups: (6,2)
Plan: 1
=
b= 8
=
2
10 11
4 11 12
6622
5511
12
1717
2266
1
3993
8282
19 35 12
23 6
1
37 38 39
40
27 43 19 36 10
28
44 20 41
29 45 22 6
30 11 23 32
12 16 24 33
13 21 25 34
14 26 17 35 8
15 42 18 31
2023457∞9
37
22 26
13 30 44
23 31
7 14 45
24
2
1
25 22 23 24
133882222
1 20 17
18
19
Design SR67: v= 12,
25
3 9 41 32
r= 6,
n = 2, λ₁
m= 6,
k = 6,
b=
=
0, A2
=
23
12
4 10
6 33
5 11 27 34
39 16 35 28 42
40 21 12 29 43
8 15 36
= 0, c₂= 1/2, H= 11, A = 30
E,= .83, E,= .91, E= .90
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary, Preece
(1967)
Dual: Irregular
34 6 28 17 15
336
35 11 29 18
7 16 30 19
8
21 42 20
252345234
9 37 43 26
10 38 44 31 12
32 39 45 36 13
33 40 27 41 14
Design SR65: v=
9,
r = 6,
m 3, n = 3,
=
k = 6,
A₁
=
3, Az
c, 6/11, c₂ 23/33, H 23/2, A = 33
E,= .92, E,= .94, E = .94
b= 9
=
Groups: (6,2)
Plan: 7 8 10 11
H2
8 9 11 12
9
10 12 5
10 11 6
11 12
12
234561
2
3
6
612457863
345672
12
1
2
1 2 3
3 4 7
8
6
9
9
10
12
317845129026
242390OTBILS
10
6
7
8
1
11
4
5
(Plan continued on next page)
156
\n--- PAGE 00000169 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs-Continued
Solution 2: As given by P. M. Roy (1954b);
nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary, Preece (1967)
Irregular, but an affine resolvable
Dual:
incomplete block design.
9
8719
9481
5231
7122
4206
6350
9
11
10
12
10
Groups: (6,2)
Plan: 1 4 5
10 1
12
11
9705202831
0248673259
2
862
11
12
12
1
4
3
9
10
6
8
11
5
7
9
6
11
10
47
4
2913526-07∞
9
11
11
231507682
8
Design SR69: v= 12, r =
8,
k
=
6,
b= 16
m= 6, n = 2,
λ₁
=
0,
A2
= 4
b = 12
3
C₁ =
0, c₂ = 1/2, H= 44/3, A = 160/3
E= .83, E₂ = .91, E = .90
Solution 1: Nonunique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (6,2)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of SR66.
Solution 2: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary, Preece (1967)
Groups: (6,2)
Plan: 1
7
8
39
28
39
88
51
62
Design SR68: v= 12, r = 6,
n = 4,
m= 3,
λ₁
k = 6,
= 2,
A2
=
CI
= 3/8, C2
=
E,
=
17/32, H= 34/3, A 32
.89, E₂ = .91, E = .91
Solution 1: Nonunique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Self complementary but not truly
self complementary (hence
nonunique)
Dual: Truly self dual
Groups: (3,4)
Plan:
6128
3178
10
2296
4853
1421
11
4
5507
12 9 11
10
2260
5 12
7309
10
10
9723
1624
318
2
3
11
5 11
12
H945
10
2598
2624
0173
1917
3862
12
2
93
28
88
17
17
17
49
10
2
11
10 11
15
5
12
4
10 11 12
10
4 11
5 12
26
10 5 6
31
4 11
51
40
93
10 11
17
7
12
5 12
26
39
39
93
93
28
88
28
82
17
17
17
26
62
26
62
4 5 12
10 11 12
4 5
7
2
7
8
4 11
10
1
5 12
7
2
Solution 2:
Nonunique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Design SR68, Solution 1, self
complementary but not truly self
complementary
Dual: Truly self dual
Groups: (3,4)
Plan:
9 10 11 12
10
2045
1762
6809
9534
8312
721-
11
4
12 10
11
1236
0352
2471
8018
5917
4892
12
Solution 3:
Arising as the dual of LS98 from
Clatworthy (1967); nonunique;
2-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary, Preece
(1967)
Dual: Design LS98
Groups: (6,2)
Plan: 1
1
3693
2
282∞
77
3663
2828
1177
4 5 6
4
11 12
10
5 12
6226
10 11
4 11 12
9 4 5
9 10 11
266
3 10 5 12
157
\n--- PAGE 00000170 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs - Continued
3663
5
10
12
9
11
10
6
9
5
4
6
3
11
4
12
3
10
11
6
9
10
5 12
9
4 11 12
4
5 6
3663
2828
2828
1177
1177
b=20
5
64
18
2
12
11
13
4 6
12
10
11
37
15
91
8∞
8
69
47
22
59
5 2
8 9 12 7 10
99
12 10
11
7
51
11 10
14
82
9
93
11
57
33
79
1 5
62
3 12 2
7
73
12
6 3 12
11
9 10
1
5
7 12
8 10
25
26
04
89
Design SR70: v= 12,
m= 6,
r = 10,
n = 2,
k= 6,
λ₁
=
0,
λε
=
Ci
=
0, c₂= 1/2, H= 55/3, A =
-
E, .83, E₂ = .91, E= .90
Solution:
2
Nonresolvable
250/3
Complement: Truly self complementary, Preece
(1967)
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (6,2)
Plan:
8 3
8
2882 ∞ ∞ 2 2 2 2 2 ∞ 2∞∞∞∞∞22
1717~----~A~A~~~~LLT
33993aam ♡♡♡amama9663
4 5 6
4 11 12
4 5 12
9 10 5 6
10 11 6
9 10
4 11 12
3 10 11
5 12
6
32
Design SR72: v= 18, r = 6,
0, c,
4
48
m= 6, n = 3,
k = 6,
λ₁ = 0, λ₂
b= 18
=
82
1/3, H= 11, A: 30
E, .83, E,= .88, E= .88
Solution:
=
Affine resolvable, Saraf (1961)
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: Truly self dual, P. M. Roy (1954b) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (6,3)
4 5
10 11
SEE BO2
12
628
7
395
284
13 14 15 16 17 18
953
16 11 18
49
4 11 12
Plan: 1
4
5 12
8
4
5 6
4
5
6
8
3 10
4 11
6
6
8
3 10
5 12
284
8
4 11
6
8
9 10 5 12
8 9 10 11 6
10 11 12
3 10 11 12
Design SR71: v= 12, r = 10,
173
842
173
280
15
4
17
6
14
10
5
12
15
640
395
16 17
12
18
14
10 11
6
4
12
1
14
15
m= 2,
n = 6,
k = 6,
λ₁ = 4,
b= 20
10
18
7 2
3
λ2
= 5
16
6
13 8
9
c₁ = 4/9,
c₂
=
29/54, H= 19, A = 90
5
18
1
8 15 10
E, .90,
E,= .92, E = .91
Solution: Affine resolvable, Agrawal (1965)
Complement: Truly self complementary
11
14 3 16
17
12
13 2 9 4
6
1
14
9 10 17
Dual: Design SR106
12
7
2
15
16 5
18 13
8
3
4 11
Groups: (2,6)
Plan:
42
3 5
6 12
32
1
11
87
8 10
9
5 7
12
22
71
39
31
26
82
4
12 6 10
9
88
72
12
71
51
11
1 10
12
=o
6 10
4 8
7 9
4
43
2 11 3
93
6
65
158
\n--- PAGE 00000171 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs - Continued
Design SR73: v= 18, r = 9,
m= 6, n = 3,
k = 6,
λ₁ = 0,
b= 27
λ₂
= 3
1 14
7 20
1739
3952
2 15
16 11 24
22 5 18
4 23 12
8 21 10 17 6
E,
= 0, c₂= 1/3, H= 33/2, ▲ = 135/2
=
=
.83, E, .88, E = .88
Solution:
2
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 18
Dual: A D(3), Speckman (1970)
Groups: (6,3)
Plan: 1
395
284
409
5 6
10
11 12
15 16 17 18
3 10 11 12
16
7
13
17
1
7
13
14
395
284
15
194
17 18
5
6
1
7
13
284
3
16
17 18
9
4
5
6
15 10
11
12
15
4
11
18
3 10
17
6
173
8
7 14
42
842
173
628
7 14
1739
2482
20 15
10 11 18
7 14 21
4 5 24
3
22 23 6
9
16 17 12
10 23 24 1
4 17 18
7 8
2042
9324
22 11 12 13 14 21
16 5 6 19 20 15
16 23 18
8462
22 17 24
4 11
240
8 21
2 15
13 20
1739
10 5 12 19 14
17
16 23 12
2204
1739
6284
10 5 18
4 11 24
1 14
7 20
2593
9325
2 21
8 15
4 17 12 1 20 21
10 23 6
16 5 24
22 11 18
14 15
2593
2482
1739
15
9 16 5 12
539
10 17
094
3 16
5 12
11 18
16 5 12
640
539
11 18
9 10 17 6
173
84
7 14
2
286
12 1 14
173
9
4
15 10
751
11
5 18
5 18
11
862
17 12
11
17 12
5 18
173
13
428
14
428
3 16
9 10
15 16
3 4
14 9 16
128
173
628
15
953
4
3
10
Design SR74: v= 24,
r = 8,
k = 6,
b= 32
m= 6, n = 4,
λ₁
=
0,
2
= = 2
160/3
Resolvable
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/4, H= 44/3, A =
E, .83, E,= .87, E= .86
Solution:
Complement: Not listed, r 24
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups: (6,4)
Plan: 1
3952
2842
=
7
13 14 15
4 5 6
10 11 12
16 17 18
19 20 21 22 23 24
1739
13 20
19 14
15 22 5 12
16 11 6
10 17 24
4 23 18
8
2 21
5239
Design SR75: v= 30,
0, c,
m= 6, = 5,
r = 5,
k = 6,
b= 25
n=
A₁
=
0,
= 1
31
=
125/6
1/5, H= 55/6, A
E, .83, E,= .86, E= .86
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 20
Dual:
Groups:
The BIB design (25,30,6,5,1), Roy and Laha
(1956)
(6,5)
Plan: Cyclically develop modulo 24 the initial
block
8 9 22 5 24
to obtain 24 blocks of size k' = 5. Then
to these blocks cyclically annex an
additional new treatment in the order
25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30,
cycling four times. Finally, annex the
set of six new treatments as the 25th
block.
Design SR76: v= 30,
m= 6,
r = 10, k = 6,
n = 5, A₁ = 0,
b= 50
λε 2
=
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/5, H= 55/3, A = 250/3
E.83, E,= .86, E = .86
Solution:
2
5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 40
Dual: Design S121
Groups: (6,5)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of SR75.
159
\n--- PAGE 00000172 ---\nTABLE VII.
Semiregular group divisible designs - Continued
Design SR77: v= 42,
r = 7,
k = 6,
b = 49
Design SR78: v= 48, r = 8,
k = 6,
m= 6,
n = 7,
λ₁ = 0,
A2
=
1
m= 6, n = 8,
λ
-
0,
245/6
C₁ =
=
160/3
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/7, H= 77/6, A =
=
E, .83, E,= .85, E = .85
Solution:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 42
Dual: Design LS88
Groups: (6,7)
0, c₂ 1/8, H= 44/3, ▲ =
E= .83, E₂ = .85, E= .85
Solution:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design LS106
Groups: (6,8)
Plan: 1 20 21
= 56
22 23 24
40 29 18
39
2
Plan: 1 8 9
10
11 12
34 29 15
6
38 37
20 35 30
16
39 7
21 36 17
2
40
22 26 18
3
41 19
23 32 27
4 42 25
24 33 28 14 5 31
1 34
35
36 32
14 40
15 41
3 30 23 37
4 24 7
16 42 5 26 13
17 6 27 20 19 10
18 38 28
22 3 500 E
13
37 32 3
43 8 33
4 41 30
13
7 44 9
14 45
34 5 42
10 35 6
19 26 15
46 11 36
25 38 27
16 47 12
31 2 39
28 17 48
33
8 9 10
11 12 1
8
38 45 34
17 30 37
9
29
21 25
22 31
11
12
1
40 41 42 38
29 13 20
30 19 21
25 22 6 14
26 31 23 15 10 36
27 37 24
28 7 3 17
2454527
18
8 34
9 35
16
12
1 2 3 4
6
8 40 35 31 18 27
9 20 41 36 37 28
10 21 42 7
14
11 22 32 13 15 30
12 23 38 33 19
24 39 34 25 17
5874527
234322299
26 3
14 27 4
32 15 28
44 33 16
20 39 46
2 21 40
22
35 18 43
47 36 7
41 48 13
23 42 19
5 24 25
29
6 31
45 46 47
48 1
44
27 40 35
24 31 8
9 28 41
36 37 14
15 10 29
42 43 2
3 16
11
30 7 20
21 4 17
12 13 32
33 22 5
18 19 38
39 34 23
6 25 26
16 17 18
1 14 15
46 41 6
7 32 27
16
28 47 42
13 20 33
26
34 29 48
19 8 21
22 35 30
25 2 9
20 21 22 23
34 14 13 41 12 27
35 15 19 42 28
36
16 25 8 29
17 31 38 9 30
2223456
10 23 36
31 38 3
4 11 24
40 5 12
5 6 1
29 24 13
37 44 39
43 26 45
32 18 37 39 10
2 3 4
38 9 46
33 7 40 11 26
47 30 19
32 39 10
11 48 25
14 33 40
1
14 15 16 17 18
40 29 9 19 32 24
41 30 10 25 33
42 11 31 34 3
26 12 37 35 4 21
38 27 7 36
5 22
39 28 8 13 6 23
1 29 30 26 27 28
13
3 35 10 38
19 4 36 11 39 14
25
12 40 20 15
31
6 32 41 21
16
37 33
8 42 22
17
7
2 34 9 23 18
2222222 222 ONB
41 12 31
20 15 34
35 42 37
26 21 16
17 36 43
44 27 22
20
23 18 7
8 45 28
30 1 26
24 43 14
27 28 29
3 34 47
48 7 38
36 13 8
15 4 35
24
6 19 20
18 25 44
39 16 5
9 40 17
21 10 41
42 31 32
45 22 11
12 37 2
33 46 23
b= 64
=
A2 1
(Plan continued on next page)
160
\n--- PAGE 00000173 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs - Continued
1
32 33
13 44 15
34
35 36
1
18
14 15 16 17
40 23 30
33
24 11 28 38 25
19 2 45
16 41 24
34 31 12 29 39 50
25 8 3
31 26 9
46 17 42
35 37 40 30
2 51
4 47
18
36 43 41 44
3 52
37 20 27
10 5
48
49 20 42 45
4 53
43 38 21
7 14 39
28 11 6
7 21
8 46
5 54
22 29 12
13 22 9 47
6 26
32
23
10 48
19 27
40 41 42
28 35 12
4 29 36
46 5 30
22 47 6
16 23 48
39
1 38
19 44 3
25 20 45
31 14 21
37 8 15
43 32 9
1
33
34 35
36 32
50 30 5 22
15 49
51 7 6 23
16 38
52
8 13 24
17 39
53 9 19 44 18 40
10 17 24
34 11
7
26 33
18
13
2 27
54 26 10 45
25 41
11 27
2 46
31 42
20 28
3 47
12 37
21 29
4 48
14 43
Design SR79; v = 54,
m= 6,
r = 9,
n = 9,
k = 6,
λ₁ = 0,
b= 81
λε
=
1
13
50 51 52
53 54
23 42 15 44
13 28
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/9, H= 33/2, ▲ =
E, .83, E,= .85, E = .85
Solution:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 72
Dual: Design LS123
Groups: (6,9)
Plan: 1 2 3 4 5 6
135/2
24 2 16 45
19 29
3 46
17 32
25 30
4 47 18 33
8 31
5 38 48 34 9 37
10 43
20 39 6 35
21 40 49 36 11 26
22 41 14 7 12 27
1 44 45
18 51 22 43
38 45 36
17 22 31
39 46 18
26 23 37
46 47 48
11 32
49 52 23 2 12 33
40 47 24 27 50 43
41 48 49 28 51
42 7 32 29 52
14 13 33 30 53 10
15 20 34 19 54 11
24 53 26 3
7 34
8
13 54 27 38
4 35
9
14 19 28 39
5 36
15 25 29 40 8 6
9 20
16 31 30 41
17 50 37 42 10 21
16 44 35 21 25 12
1
38 39 40 41 42
32 28 53 6 21 31
33 29 54 37 22 44
8 34 30
43
23 45
9 14 35
49
24 46
11
10 15 36 2
16 50
12 17 51
7 47
3
13 48
4 26 19
25
18 52
5 20 27
1
10 11 12
1
1
23 24 20
21 22
29
3
10 38
18 49
30
4 11 39
7 44
40
5 12 32
13 45
41
6 19
33 50 46
42 14 25 34 51 47
26 15 31 35 52 48
27 16 8 36 53 37
28 2 9 17 54 43
8 9
44 34 17
6 49 27
45 35 18 50 7 28
46 36 20 51 13 29
47 52 21 19 38 30
1
29 30 26 27 28
40 48 33 20 17
41 13 34 21 18
42 8 35 22 19
87234
9 36 50 23 25
5
48 53 22
2 39 25
14 54 23
3 40 31
15 32 24
4 41 37
16 33 43
5 42 26
10 44 51 24 31
52 37 14 6
11 45
38 46 53 12 15 43
39 47
54 32 16 49
161
\n--- PAGE 00000174 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs - Continued
Design SR80: v= 14, r = 4,
-
-
k = 7,
b
=
8
MF 7,
n = 2,
λ₁
-
0,
A2 2
=
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/2, H= 52/7, A
2
-
E= .86, E₂ = .92, E = .92
2
=
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
96/7
Complement: Truly self complementary, Preece
(1967)
Dual: The BIB design (8,14,7,4,3), P. M. Roy
(1954b) and Roy and Laha (1956)
Groups: (7,2)
Plan: 1
8
1
8
1
8
1
8
69696662
3 4
5
9 10 11
10 11
12
3
4
3
11
10
4
10 4
12
3 11
12
5225522
13
12 13
5
003333
6
6
5 13 14
งงงงง
7
7
7
7
13 14
6 14
6
14
r = 6,
k = 7,
b = 12
m= 7, n = 2,
λ₁ =
= 0,
λ2
= 3
=
=
=
216/7
Plan:
8
8
29
18
30
92
18
32
14
03
29
18
93
92
18
30
29
8
8
9
පය
5 6 7
32
41
10 11 12
13 14
11 5 13 7
=ཅ་
10 4 12 6 14
10
5 6 14
4 12 13 7
10 4 5 13 14
36
52
3 11 12
7
4 12 13 14
10 11
30
11
10 4
93
26
29
92
18
18
18
18
10 11
14
25
12
25
12
25
6 7
6 14
7
13
13 7
6 14
10 4 12 6 7
3 11
03
5 13
14
Design SR81: v= 14,
Ci 0, c₂ 1/2, H= 78/7, A
E, .86, E₂ = .92, E = .92
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary, Preece
(1967)
10 4 12 13 14
10
11 5 13 14
3 11 12 6 14
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (7,2)
Plan: 8 9
3 11 12 13 7
1
9
8
1
1
2 10 4 12 13 7
1
3
11 5 13 14
8
8
8
1
8
1
3 4
696
55525
33
92922296662
4 12 6 14
4 5 13 7
10 4
10 11
2 10 11 12
m= 7,
=
5
23
Design SR83: v= 14,
r = 10, k = 7,
n = 2, λ₁ : 0,
b= 20
=
2
600/7
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/2, H= 130/7, A =
E, .86, E,= .92, E = .92
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary, Preece
(1967)
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (7,2)
Plan:
181
633663363
52552252
8
8
6
14
1
7
1
7
1
7
1
8
Design SR82: v= 14, r = 8,
m= 7,
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/2, H= 104/7, A =
E= .86, E₂ = .92, E = .92
Solution 1: Nonunique; 4-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary, Preece
k = 7,
b = 16
1
n = 2, λι
=
=
0,
A2 4
8
1
384/7
8
8
8
8
1
1
8
26629922222292966622
3moomoo mmm momomo9993
4
7
4 12 13 14
10 4
13 14
10 11
14
11 12
7
10 4 12 13 7
10 11
13 14
3 11 12
14
3 4 12 13 7
3
4
4
10
4
555
13 14
6 14
6
7
11 5 6
7
10 4 12 6
11
10 4 12
252
7
13
7
6 14
10 11 5 13 7
10 11 12
10 11
222
6 14
13
11 12 13
33
7
14
(1967)
Dual:
Design S63, Solution 1
Groups: (7,2)
Plan:
Duplicate the plan of SR80.
Solution 2: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary, Preece
(1967)
Dual: A D(3), Speckman (1970)
Groups: (7,2)
162
\n--- PAGE 00000175 ---\nTABLE VII. Semi regular group divisible designs - Continued
Design SR84: v= 21, r = 6,
3,
m= 7, n=
k = 7,
b
=
18
λ
=
0,
A2
= 2
216/7
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/3, H= 78/7, ▲ =
2
E= .86, E₂ = .90, E = .90
Solution:
2
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: A D(3), Speckman (1970)
Groups: (7,3)
1
16
8 2
10 11
17 18
5 20 21
12
6 7
15 9 3
1
8
15
629
4 19 13 14
10 18 12
2 17 4 19 13 21
3 11
5
293
032
14
7
Plan: 1 2 3
4 5
6
8 9 10
11 12 13
15
16 17
18
19
1
2
10
18
12
8 9
17 4
19
6
15
16
3 11 5 13
1
9 3
18
19 13 14
8
16 10 4
5 20 14
777777
C3220322
C 1
-
0, c₂
=
Solution:
Dual:
1/4, H= 104/7, A =
=
E,= .86, E, .89, E = .89
Complement: Not listed, r
A D(3), Speckman (1970)
Design SR86: v= 28,
r = 8,
k = 7,
b= 32
m= 7,
n = 4,
λι
=
0, A2
=
22
384/7
Resolvable
=
24
Groups: (7,4)
15
2
17
11
12
6
14
1
16 17
4
12
8
2
3
11
32233
13 14
Plan:
19 20 14
15
9
10
18
5
6
14
1
9 17
11
5
20 21
22
2962
1852
16 17
23
3002
4
12
11
9 10
19
18
26
24 25
5202
6 7
13 14
20 21
27 28
8
16 3
18
12 6 21
15 2 10
4
19 13 21
1
16 10
11
19
6 21
8
18
2 17
5 13
21
15 9 3
4
12 20
21
1852
9 17 25
2 24 18
12
23 3
19
11
22 16
10
5298
13 21
6 28
27 7
4 26 20 14
Design SR85: v= 21,
=
0, c₂ 1/3, H= 117/7, A = 486/7
-
E,= .86, E₂ = .90, E = .90
Solution:
Dual:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Not a D(x), x =
Groups: (7,3)
Plan:
296
185
300
418
= 18
1, 2, 3, 4
529
6
7
13 14
r = 9,
MF 7, n = 3,
k = 7,
b = 27
λ₁ = 0,
λ₂
=
23
1852
16
23
6229
3 18 12
10 25
22
22
1852
23
8 16
24
9
N428
17 11 12 20 28
5 27 21
3 25 26
6 14
2 10 18 19 13
7
22
1852 1852
2963
10
11 26 27 21
3
16 24
25
4 19 20 28
12
17 18 5 6
13
7
14
9 24
18
26 20 7
14
2 17 25 19 27
10 4 12 6 21
16 3 11 5 13 28
2 17 4
9 24 11 19 6 21
2569
27 14
7
5 20
13 28
9 10
17
16
395
290
185
16
296
185
15 16
185
185
185
185
16
10
17
10
300
11
12
18 19 20 21
184
12 13 21
18 19 20
5 6
7
14
12
320 203
18 19 20
17 11
15 23
22
14
4
5
6 21
12 13 7
22
1852
16
0229
2814
0320
10 25
19
6 28
8 23
2 24 11 5 20
17
12 27
23 24 4 19 13 14
18 26 13 21
27
14
17 4 12 20
30
992
16
11 19 6 14
10 18
742
203
245
13 21
9 17 11 19 6 21
962
16
3 18
252
13
271
2 10 4 12 20 14
9 17 18
529
3 4 12
13 14
21
427
320
20
2 10 11 19 6
16 10
19 13 7
952
418
2 17
9 3
11
12
5 20 14
6 21
22
1852
2692
16 17 11
26 6 7
9
3
10 18
25
5 27 28
12 20 21
163
\n--- PAGE 00000176 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs-Continued
Design SR87: v= 49,
c₁ =
=
r = 7,
m= 7,
n = 7,
k = 7,
A₁ =
b = 49
= 0, λ2
- 1
=
42
0, c₂= 1/7, H= 13, A
E,= .86, E,= .87, E = .87
Solution: Affine resolvable, Saraf (1961)
Complement: Not listed, r = 42
Dual: Self dual, P. M. Roy (1954b)
Groups: (7,7)
Plan: To construct, use
1
52
53 54
55 56 51
46
9 40 36
7 31 27
16 47 10 41
43 32 28
17 48 11 42 50 2 33
18 49 12 8
3
34 23
19
13 37 15
4
35 24
2220
20 44 14 38 22
5 25
21
45 39 29
6
30 26
1
16 17 18
19 20 21
8
53 47 6
15 23 54 48
31
7 32 38
37 14
22 24 55
49
33 39 9
Set 7.1 once
Set 7.6
once
29 25 56
2
34 40 10
36 26 44
3
35 41 11
Set 7.3
once
Set 7.7
once
43 27 51 45 4 42 12
50 28 52 46
Set 7.4
once
Set 7.8
once
Set 7.5
5 30
13
1 2 3
4
5 6 7
33 53 15
10
44 27 21
once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
34 54 22 11 37 45 28
35 55 29 12 38 46 16
56 36 13 39 47 23 17
Design SR88: v= 56,
m= 7,
r = 8,
n = 8,
k = 7,
λ₁ = 0,
b = 64
λ2 1
=
31
30 43 14 40 48 24 18
51 50 41 49 25 19
32 52 8 9 42 26 20
c₁ =
0, c₂
1/8, H= 104/7, A =
384/7
2
Solution:
E, .86, E₂ = .87, E = .87
Complement: Not listed, r = 56
Dual: Design LS107
1
33
Resolvable
40 17
41 18
34 35
31 32
39 16 3 54 27 14 50
4 55 44 28 8
5 56 45 9 15
30
42 19
6 46 23 10 22
Groups: (7,8)
Plan: 1 28 23 24 25
26 27
33 46 3 56 20
43
37
9 34 47
4 21
50 38
10 35 48
5 51
8 39
11 49 6
52 16
15 40
17
22
53 41
12 30 7
13 31 44 54 18 29 42
14 32 45 2
55
19 36
1
11
9 10
52 39 34 19 43 7 44
53 40 23 35 20 50 45
54 41 21 8 2 46 24
55 42 25 30 15
56 26 31 16 22
37 27 32 17
51 38 28 33
12
13 14
20 7 51 47 24 11 29
37 21 52 48 25 12 36
38 2 53 49 26 13 43
1 39 40
46 15 34
47 22 35
41 42 37 38
17 26 14 51
18 27 52
48 29 19 28 9 53
49 36 30 20 10 54
43 31 21 23 11 55
44 50 32 24 12 56
45 8 33 16 25 13
87234567
3 47
4 48
24
29
5 49
25
18 36
6
26
28
13222272
1 46
47
48 49 44 45
3 40 22
4 41
5 42
6 43
7 37
27 38 8
2 39
13 51 21 32
29 14 52 33
36 53 16 34
9 54 17 35
50 10 55 18
11 56 19 30
15 12 20 31
164
\n--- PAGE 00000177 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs – -
Continued
Solution:
1/9, H= 117/7, A = 486/7
E,= .86, E,= .87, E = .87
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 72
Dual: Design LS124
Design SR89: v= 63, r = 9,
m= 7,
n = 9,
k = 7,
A₁ = = 0,
b= 81
λg
= 1
0, c₂
1 58 59 60
26 48 17 51
27 49 18 52
28 53 19 37
54 36 20 38
55 44 21 39
23 45 56 40
24 46 57 41
25 47 16 42
61
62 63
14 32 15
22 33
29 34
9 35
10 43
11 50
12 30
13 31 8
35234567∞
Groups: (7,9)
1 51
52 53
54 55 56
Plan: 1 2 3
4
5
6
7
20 59
50
49
12 37 25
44 52 41 25
36
14 19
21 60 2
57
13 38 26
45 53 42 30
26
43 20
3 61 30
8
14 39 27
46
54 27
47 55 28 32 59
31
58
50 21
4 62 31
44
15 40 28
9 57
16 63 32
45
5 41 22
48 56 37 33
60
10
8
17 6 33
46
9 42 29
49 15 38
34
61
11 16
18 7 34
47
10 36 23
23 22 39
35
62
12 17
19 58 35
48 11
43 24
24 51 40
29
63
13
18
1 26
27
28
23
24 25
1
44 45 46
47
48 49
33 3 11
20 63 57 44
32 21 61 6 24
36
37
34
4 12
21 8 51 45
33 43 62 7 25
51 38
35
5 13
9 34 63
50
26
52 39
22 6 14
10 16 35
57
27
53 40
16 7 29
11 17 8
2
28
54 41
12 18 58
3 15
55 42
13 19 59
4 30 56 22
32 2
10
30 17 36
31 18
52 46
38 58 53 47
39 59 54 48
40 60 55 49
61 56 43
42 62 19 50
9 41
37 15
14
20 60
5 23
31 29
1 33
34 35
30 31 32
1
9 10
11
12
13 14
46 55 63
23
19 38
51 39 57
6
49
31 19
52 40 58 7
53 41 23 59 15
8
32
20
33 21
54
42 24
60 44 34 22
55 61 25
2 45 35 29
56 62 26
63 37 27
50 38 28
46 36 16
4 47 43 17
5 48 30 18
3
25 21 3
4 10
42 51 59 27 36
43 52 60 28 16
44 53 61 50 17
45 54 62 37
5 11
6 12
7
13
18 57
14
47 56 39 24 20 2 15
48 40 22
49 41 58 26 29
2859
39 28 13
1 20 21
38 27 12 56
45
16 17 18 19
44
Design SR90: v= 12,
29 32
r = 6,
m= 4, n = 3,
=
k = 8,
λ₁ 3, λε
b= 9
= 4
36 58 33
40
46 14 43
41 47 50 51
42 23 48 52
49 24 9 53
15 25 10 54
37 26 11 55
2 59 34
=
8/15, c2=
3 60 35
4 61 57
5 62
6 63 30
7 22 31
8
Unique; nonresolvable
1 38 39 40 41 42 37
58 34 5 56 17 57 25
59 35 6 8 18 44 26
c,
E,
= 31/45, H= 93/8, A = 135/4
.94, E₂ = .96, E = .95
Solution:
Complement: Design SR41
Dual: The BIB design (9,12,8,6,5), Roy and Laha
(1956)
Groups: (4,3)
Plan: 1 3 8
61
60 9 7 15 19 45 27
10 22 51 20 46 28
62 30 11 52 21 47 29
1 7
1 11 12
63
31
2 53 12 48 36
13
32
3 54 43 49 23
14 33
4 55 16 50 24
1966555
7 12
9 11
42284428
4
NÕONŏaNoa
6
10
2 10
6 2
10
2
3
5 11
3 12 10 6
7 8 2 10
9 11
10
6 2
NOONOOOO
2
6
6
555116619
7
5 11 12
3
1 11
3
7
12
3 12
7
428842284
165
\n--- PAGE 00000178 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs - Continued
Design SR91: v= 16,
m= 8,
r = 6,
n = 2,
k = 8,
A₁
=
0,
b= 12
A₂ = 3
0, c₂
=
1/2, H= 45/4, A
=
63/2
=
Design SR93: v= 16,
m= 8,
r = 10, k = 8,
n = 2,
b = 20
A₁ 0,
=
A
= 5
c₁ = 0, c₂ =
1/2, H= 75/4, A =
175/2
=
(1967)
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (8,2)
E, .88, E, .93, E = .93
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary, Preece
E, .88, E, .93, E = .93
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary, Preece
(1967)
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (8,2)
Plan: 9 10 3 12
13 14
7
8
Plan: 1 2 3 4
5 6 7 8
13 10 14
15
1
11
4
8
9 10 3
4
13 14 15 16
9 2 11
12
5
14
15
16
14 10 11
4
5
1 15 16
1
10
3
12
13 6
15
16
9 15 11
12
5 6
2 16
1 2
11 4
13
14
7
16
9 10 3
12
13 6 7 16
1
2 3
14
5
12
15
8
1 10 11 13 4 14 7 8
13
6 15 16
9 2
3
4
5
14 4
16
9 10
3
7
9
4 15
8
5 10
11
6
1535
5 11
7
16
1 10
6
12
6
7 8
9
2
11 12
6
7
8
1
2
3 4
Design SR92: v= 16, r = 8,
=
=
0, c₂ 1/2, H= 15, A
E= .88, E,= .93, E = .93
2
Solution: Affine resolvable, Agrawal (1965)
Complement: Truly self complementary, Preece
(1967)
Dual: Truly self dual, P. M. Roy (1954b) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (8,2)
Plan:
20
19
33
75
64
86
9 10
4
5
11 12 13 14 15 16
31
19
20
Design SR94: v= 24,
m= 8,
r = 9,
n = 3,
k = 8,
λ₁
=
c₁ = 0, c,= 1/3, H= 135/8, ▲ =
E= .88, E,= .91, E = .91
Solution:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 18
Dual: A D(3), Speckman (1970)
Groups: (8,3)
Plan: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
1
2 11
12
2 16 12
5 14
13 6 15
15
8
3
2
3 4
13 14 7
16
2
3 4
5
14 15
8
10
15 16
1 6 3 4
6 11 16
9 2
7 4
6
7 8
1 10
3
12
6
7 8
13 2
11
4
k = 8,
b= 16
5
14
7 12
9 10 3 8
m= 8,
n= 2,
λι
=
0,
2 = 4
13
6 15 8
9 10 11 4
5 14 7 16
9
10 11 12
= 56
13 6 15 8
1 10 11 12
13 14 7 16
13 14 15
1
2 11 12
8
9
2
3 12
11955595
b= 27
=
0, A2 3
567/8
10 3 12
2
11
5 14 7 16
13
1
15 8
9
11
12
5
6
15 16
1
3
13
14
9 10
4
5
14
15
1
10
11
12
13
3
13
14 15
16
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
9
10
12
6
15
8
1
10
3 12 13
14
7 16
9
2 11
5
7 8
1
2
11 12 13 14
15
10
16
168
1 10
11
13
5
9
2
3
12
46
75
64
35
42
14 15
8
9
17
18
10 11 12 13 14 15 16
19 20 21 22 23 24
I
1
9
10
200
3
12
13 14 23 24
11 20 21 22 7 8
17 18 19 4 5 6 15 16
1
2 3 20 21
9 10 11
243
2426
22 15 16
5 6 23 24
17 18 19 12 13 14 7 8
9
17
082
1 10 19 4 13 22 7 16
18 3 12 21 6 15
11 20 5 14 23
128
1
24
1
9
18
17
131
082
10 19 12 21
3 20
6 23 8
5 14 7 16
I
4 13 22 15 24
(Plan continued on next page)
I
166
\n--- PAGE 00000179 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs-Continued
1
10
19
20
5
14
15 24
9 18
3
4
13
22
23 8
17
2 11
12
21
6
7
16
197
18 11
4
21
14
7 24
2 19
12
5
22
15 8
17 10 3
20
13
6
23 16
197
18 11
12
5
22
23 16
2 19
20
13
6 7 24
17 10
3
4
21
14 15 8
1 18
11
20
13
6
15
8
9 2
19
4
21
14
23
16
17 10 3 12
5 22
7 24
Design SR95: v= 32,
m= 8,
r = 8,
n = 4,
k = 8,
b= 32
λ₁
=
0,
λ₂ = 2
0, c₂= 1/4, H= 15, A
=
56
C1
=
=
E, .88, E,= .90, E= .90
Solution:
Affine resolvable, Saraf (1961)
Complement: Not listed, r = 24
Dual: Self dual, P. M. Roy (1954b)
Groups: (8,4)
Plan:
Design SR96: v= 56,
r = 7,
m= 8, n = 7,
k = 8,
b= 49
λ₁
=
0,
A2
= 1
C₁ =
0, c,= 1/7, H= 105/8, A = 343/8
E= .88, E, .89, E= .89
Solution:
Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 42
Dual: The BIB design (49,56,8,7,1), Roy and
Laha (1956)
Groups: (8,7)
Plan: Cyclically develop modulo 48 the initial
block
3 5 10 30 36 39 40
to obtain 48 blocks of size k' = 7. Then
to these blocks cyclically annex an
additional new treatment in the order
49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56,
cycling six times. Finally, annex the
set of eight new treatments as the 49th
block.
Design SR97: v= 64, r =
8,
k = 8,
b= 64
m= 8, n = 8,
λ₁
=
0,
A2 = 1
=
56
5322
4421
22
29 30
7423
14 23 32
1622
31 24
8
022∞
32
1973
2228
21 30 7 16
29
15
220*
Ci
=
0, c₂
=
1/8, H= 15, A
E, .88, E,= .89, E = .89
Solution: Affine resolvable, Saraf (1961)
Complement: Not listed, r = 56
Dual: Self dual, P. M. Roy (1954b)
Groups: (8,8)
Plan:
To construct, use
25
Set 8.1 once
Set 8.6
once
18
Set 8.3 once
Set 8.7
once
26
2
Set 8.4
once
Set 8.8
once
Set 8.5
once
Set 8.9
once
1973
10
18
25
10
02080
27
26
18
19
12
CHAN 222 223 224
3
27 12
4
CNT ON NNE KANN E ≈ 5 2 8ŏN
2 3 4
6
12 13
15
16
20
24
26 27
19
28
20 13
3
20 13 30 15
11 28 5 22
29 14 31 16
21 6
3732
32
24
8
1972
13 22
8802
1978
25 10
26 19
18 27
BE
11
20=3
0208
1978
5322
+228
ONK
SEAN 222 22 2 2 ≈ *
ART 20
31
8
5 30 23 16
28 29 6 15 24
7 32 25
24 1
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
10 3
Design SR98: v= 72,
m= 8,
r = 9,
n= 9,
k = 8,
λ = 0,
λα
b= 81
= 1
2329
2000
2482
=
567/8
20
29 30 23
11 12
21
22
31 32 9 10
13
14
8
17 18 27
5
6 15 16 25 26 19 20
7
16
30 15
8
2235
2842
29
21
13
6
14
30
15
6
7
30 31
NELE
23
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/9, H= 135/8, A
E, .88, E, .89, E = .89
Solution:
=
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 72
Dual: Design LS125
Groups: (8,9)
Plan: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
50 59 46 41 72 15 21 28
51 60 47 34 49 16 22 29
52 61 48 35 66 57 23 30
53 62 65 36 67 10 24 31
54 63 42 37 68 11 9 32
55 64 43 38 69 12 18 17
56 25 44 39 70 13 19 26
33 58 45 40 71 14 20 27
(Plan continued on next page)
14
23 32
31 24 25 18
31 16
23
10 27
19
26 11
18 11 28 21
26
8020
1978
6822
15 32
224 22-0
24
32
8
3 20 29
27 12
2253
7 24 25 10 19 4 13
16 25
222 228
2222253
26 27 4 21 14
18 19 12 29
2223
2802
1973
10 11 20
13
4022
22
167
\n--- PAGE 00000180 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs - Continued
1 50
51
52
53
54
55 56
1
29 30 31 32
26 27 28
16 23 69
6
27
41
42 36
37 3 12
48
71
65 50 22
49 24 70
7
28
58
43 37
38 4 13
9
72
58 51 23
10 57 71
8
29
59 44 38
39
11 18 72
65 30
60
45 39
5
40 6 15
14 42 17 59 52 24
43 66 60 53 25
12 19
9
2
31
61
46 40
33
7 16 44
67 61 54 18
13 20 66
3
32
62 47 17
34 8 41
45
68
62 55 19
14 21 67
4 25
63 48 34
3
35 49 10 46 69
63 56 20
15 22 68
5 26
64
33 35
36 2 11
47
70
64 57 21
1 16
10
11
12
13
14 15
1 37 38
39 40
34
35 36
58 44 32
6
55
35
21 65
52 62 71 26 21
9 16 43
59 45
9
7
56
36
22
66
53 63 72
27 22
2 17 44
60 46 26
8
17
37
23 67
54 64 25
28
23
3 10 45
61 47 27
25
50
38 24
68
55 33 66 29
24
4 11 46
62 48 28
2
51
39 33
69
56 58 67 30
41
5 12 47
63 41 29
3 52
40
18 70
49 59 68
31 18
6
13 48
64 42 30
4 53
49 19 71
57 43 31
5 54
34
20
72
50 60 69 32
51 61 70 65
19
7
14 57
20
8
15 42
1 58 59
60
61
62 63 64
22 67 40
55
13
42 28 57
23 68 65 56
21
43 29
24 69 34 9 15 44 30
17 70 35 50 16 45 31
18 71 36 51 25 46 32
19 72 37 52 10 47 33
20 41 38 53 11 48 26
66 39 54
14
12
49 27
$52345678
Design SR99: v= 18,
r = 6,
m= 9, n= 2,
k = 9,
b = 12
λ1 = 0,
λε 3
=
c = 0, c₂ = 1/2, H= 34/3, A
E.89, E,= .94, E= .94
32
1
22 23 24
18
19 20 21
43 30 13 63
44 31 14 64
45 32 15 49
46 57 16 58
47 26 65 59
48 27 10 60
17 28 11 61
42 29 12 62
8
33 36 50
41
66 37 51
2 67 38 52
3 68 39 53
4 69 40 54
5 70 9 55
6 71 34 56
7 72 35 25
22
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary, Preece
(1967)
Dual: A D(3), Speckman (1970)
Groups: (9,2)
Plan: 10 11 3 9 8 15
1 16
10 2
1 43 44 45
66 38
67 39 6
46 47 48 42
5 63 19 65 28 16
64 20 50 29 9
51 30 10
58 22 52 31 11
68 40 7 17 21
69 25 8
70 34 33 59 23 53 32 12
71 35 2 60 24 54 41 13
72 36 3 61 49 55 26 14
57 37 4 62 18 56 27 15
Design SR100:v 18, r = 8,
m= 9,
1 66 67 68 69 70
29 54 19 48 15 36
71 72
17 58
E,
c₁ = 0, c₂ =
.89, E,
30 55 20 25 16 37 2 59
31 56 21 42 33 38
32 41 22 43 10 39
49 50 23 44 11 40
26 51 24 45
27 52 65 46
3 60
4 61
5 62
12 57
6 63
13 34
7 64
28 53 18 47 14 35
8 9
Solution 1:
k = 9,
b = 16
n=
2, λι
=
0,
A2
= 4
1/2, H= 136/9, A = 512/9
.94, E = .94
Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary, Preece
(1967)
Dual: Design LS99, Solution 1
Groups: (9,2)
638989
12
4 14 8
7 14 13
11 15 9
12
13 5 15
16 17 9
1
11 6 13 14 3
17 14 15
16 17 18
7 4 12
1 2 18
13 5 15
16
4 14
4 5
16 8 18
16 17
7 17 18
10 11 5
2 18
9
1 8 3
10
2 3
10 11
15
4 12
6
13
17
1 11
12
7 5
7 8 18
10 2
6
13
14
12
7
2
1 6
3
4
5
8
62
(Plan continued on next page)
168
\n--- PAGE 00000181 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs - Continued
Plan:
1
1
1
1
333
2222
4
4 14
ཨs
5
3 13
5 15
3
13
14
a55a
6
7
8
9
15
7 17 18
16
8
18
232
6
16
17 9
1
10 11
2 12 13 14 15
4 5 6
7 8
9
16 17
9
1 11
10 2
3 13
5 15
16
8 18
4 14 6 7 17 18
1
11 12
4
5 6
7
17 18
1
11
12
4
14
15 7
8 9
1
11
12
13
5
15
16
17 9
1
11 12
13
14
6
16
8
18
Design SR101:v= 18, r = 10,
m= 9,
n = 2, X₁
k
=
€9,
b= 20
=
0, A2
5
10
2
12
4
5
6
16
8 18
10
2
12
4
14
15
16
17 9
10
2 12
13
5
15
7
8
9
c= 0, c₂ = 1/2, H= 170/9, ▲ =
E= .89, E₂ = .94, E = .94
800/9
10 2 12
13
14
6
7
17
18
10 11 3
4
5
6
16
17
9
10 11 3
4 14
15 16 8
18
54
15 7 17 18
10 11 3 13
10 11 3 13 14 6 7 8 9
Note: Plan was obtained by inverting LS99,
Solution 1
Solution 2: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary, Preece
(1967)
Dual: Design LS99, Solution 2 or design M32
Groups: (9,2)
Plan: 1 2
1 2
2222
655
14 15
5454
4433
3333
1 2 3 13 5 15 16 8 18
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary, Preece
(1967)
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (9,2)
Plan: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
10 11 3 4 14 15 16 17 9
1 11 12 4 5 15 16 17 18
10 2
13 5 6 16 17 18
10 11 3 13 14 6
22
7
17 18
1 11 12 4 14 15 7 8 18
3 4 5 15 16 8 18
4444
55
1 2 12 13 5 15
16 8 9
1
2
3 13 14 6
16
17 9
7 8 9
1
2
3 4 14
15 7 17 18
7 17 18
10
2
1 11
3 4
5
6
16 17 9
1 2
14
11 12 4 5
6 16 17
6 16
9
10
2 12
5
6
7 17 18
17
9
1 11
3 13 5 6
7 8 18
1 11 12 4 14 15
7 8
9
10 2
12 4 14
6
7
8 9
1 11 12 13 5 15
7
17 18
10 11
3 13 5 15
7
8 9
1 11 12
13 14 6
16
8 18
10 11
10 2 12
10 2
10 2
10 2 12 13 14 6
10 11 3 4 5 6
10 11 3 4 14 15
10 11 3 13 5 15
10 11 3 13 14 6
4
12 4
12 13
5 6
16
8 18
10 11
12 4 14
12 13 5 15
6 16
8 9
7 17
9
14
15 16
17 9
1 11
12 13 14 6 16 8 18
5 15
7 8 9
7 17 18
10
1 2
2
12 13 14 15 7 17
3 13 14 15 16 8
9
18
7
17 18
16 8 18
Design SR102:v=
16 17 9
27, r = 9,
m= 9, n = 3,
k = 9,
λ₁ 0,
b = 27
=
A2
=
23
7 8 9
Note: Plan was obtained by inverting LS99,
Solution 2
Solution 3: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
2-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary, Preece
(1967)
Dual: A D(3), Speckman (1970)
= 0, c₂ = 1/3, H= 17, A = 72
E, .89, E,= .92, E = .92
Solution:
2
Affine resolvable, Saraf (1961)
Complement: Not listed, r = 18
Dual: Self dual, P. M. Roy (1954b)
Groups: (9,3)
Plan:
1
10 11
12
6 7 8
99
9
19 20 21
Groups: (9,2)
Plan: 1 2
10 11
1
11
13 14 15 16 17
5454
4334
3232
13 5 15 7 17 18
10 2 12 4 14 6 16 8 18
422 425
4
265
7023
322 22 265
242
322
242
243
322
14
23
24
425
432
13
22
13
543 520
6
14
25
15 16
25
26
27
7 8
17 27
16 26
9 10
15
25
23 24 25 26
13 14 15 25 26
23 24 7
6 16 17
23 24 16 17 18
14
15
བིད
38-
10
19
2° 2°∞
208
TOR 7 ∞2°
7 8
17
∞∞
27
982
18
27
9
10
18
19
100
212
20
222
20
101
232
11
20
1
2 12 13
10 11 3
10
EE2
14 15
1 11 12
6767
6556
5454
3443
16 17 9
8
9
1
10
1
10
2 12
6767
5665
4545
4334
3232
2112
5 15 16 8 18
2 3 13 14
13
7 17 18
14 15 16 17
13 14
16
9
8 18
5 15 7 17 18
9
8
18 19
(Plan continued on next page)
169
\n--- PAGE 00000182 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs-Continued
C1
1/8, H= 136/9, A
11
20
222
101
10
21 13
224
12 4
543
526
232 242 244
232
+32
Design SR104:v = 72,
r =
8,
k = 9,
b = 64
m= 9,
n = 8,
λ₁
=
= 0,
A2 1
=
0, c₂
-
512/9
18 10 20
27 19 2
19
15 16 26 9
24
25
6
7
287
1
7
26
18
16
8
27
17
829
58-
221
FREE♡
11
23
15
25
18
829
17 27
872
3763
14 24 16 26
652
ܢ | ܣ
25
18
922
17
26
8
25+ EL TORE∞
-01
10
19
14
13 23
20 12 4 23 15
20 12
27 19 11
221
101
298
27
18 19
2 21
223 23
21 13
324
22
12 22 14
20
21
11
3
13
5
3 22 14
24
24
E, .89, E₂ = .90, E = .90
=
Solution:
Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
=
56
Dual: The BIB design (64,72,9,8,1), Roy and
Laha (1956)
Groups: (9,8)
25
Plan:
37665
265
542
14
23 15 16
235
16
15
24
25
17
7 26
652
435
4 23
822
Cyclically develop modulo 63 the initial
block
3 6 7 17 41 47 49 54
to obtain 63 blocks of size k' = 8. Then
to these blocks cyclically annex an
additional new treatment in the order
64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72
cycling seven times. Finally, annex the
set of nine new treatments as the 64th
block.
m= 9,
Design SR103:v 36,
-
c₁ = 0, c, 1/4, H= 136/9, A = 512/9
E, .89, E,= .91, E = .91
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 24
Dual: A D(3), Speckman (1970)
Groups: (9,4)
r = 8,
n = 4,
k = 9,
b= 32
λι
=
· 0,
2
= 2
Design SR105:v 81, r = 9, k = 9,
m= 9, n = 9, λ₁ = 0,
b = 81
λ₂ 1
=
Solution:
28 20 12
Plan: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 36
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 36
19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 36
28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36
1 11 21 31
10 2 30 22
19 29 3 13
4
Dual:
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/9, H= 17, A = 72
E= .89, E₂ = .90, E = .90
Affine resolvable, Saraf (1961)
Complement: Not listed, r = 72
Self dual, P. M. Roy (1954b)
Groups: (9,9)
125
Plan:
To construct, use
15 25 35 27
14 6 34 26 27
23 33 7 17 27
Set 9.1 once
Set 9.7
once
32 24 16
8 27
Set 9.3 once
Set 9.8
once
1 20
3
22
14 33
16 35
9
10 29 12
31
5
24 7 26
9
Set 9.4
once
Set 9.9
once
19 2 21
4 32
15 34 17
9
28
11 30
13
23 6 25
8
9
Set 9.5
once
Set 9.10 once
1
29 21
13 14
24 34 8 36
10
20 30
4
5
33
25 17 36
16
26 36
28 2
1
2
12
10 11 3
7 35 36
25 26 18
19 11 3 31 32 6
12 22 23 15
13 32 33
4 23 24 34 35 18
19 20 30 31 14 15 7 8 18
28 29 21 22 5 6 16
17
18
1
10
11 30 22
2 21 31
32 24 7 17
9
23 33 16
99
78325
19 29 12 4 14 6 25 35 9
28 20 3 13 5 15 34 26 9
12
3 22 32 15 25 8 27
31 23 6 34 17 27
1 20
10 29
19
2 30
13 5 24 16 35 27
28
11 21 4
14 33 7 26 27
once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design SR106:v = 20, r = 6,
m= 10, n= 2,
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/2, H= 57/5, A
E= .90, E₂ = .95, E = .94
Solution:
Nonresolvable
k = 10,
A₁ = 0, A2 = 3
b= 12
=
162/5
Complement: Truly self complementary, Preece
(1967)
Dual: Design SR71
Groups: (10,2)
Set 9.6
1 29 30 4 23 15 16 26 18
10 20 21 13 32 6 7 35 18
19 11 12 22
5 33 34 8 18
28
2
3 31
14
24 25 17 18
(Plan continued on next page)
170
\n--- PAGE 00000183 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs - Continued
Design SR107:v = 20,
r = 8,
k
=
10,
b = 16
Plan:
11 12
3
14 15
16 12 13
4 15
55
16
7
8
1 17
8
11
2
13
17
5
16 14
4
18
969
9 20
10
10
1
12
3
14 15
6 17
18 19 10
456
1
2
13
4
16
15
7
18
19 20
2
3
14
5
16
17
8
19 20
6
15 20 18
4
17
18
9
20
11 2
3
6
15
16
7
16 7 18
19
10
11
12
3
4
5
8
17
16 20
11 17 8
19
20
6
12
13
4
5
18 9
17
6
7
18
9
20
1
12
13 14
6
7
8 19 10
11
2
13
6
5
8
9
10
1
2
33
14 15
4
557
10 19 18 2
Plan:
2
1
10
12
3 11 15
7 6
16 17
5 3 9
9 4
4
13 12 16 17 18
19
1 10
°20
20
18
20 11
C4212345698
88527400
14 5 13 17 18 19
11 3 19 12
15 19 20 12 1 8 13
13
24
5 14 9
3 14 6 15 10
15 4 7 16 1
16 8 2
20
11
19 5
17 3
1 12
3
17
9
18 20
13
2
18 10
19 11
3 14
20 7 12 1
15
4
6 9
7
20
20
11
2 13
m 10,
n= 2,
A₂
=
0,
A2
= 4
5
16
10 9
11 14
3 12
17
6
CI
=
0, c₂= 1/2, H= 76/5, A
=
288/5
7
18
E, .90, E₂ = .95, E = .94
Solution:
2-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary, Preece
Groups: (10,2)
Plan: 1
(1967)
6
8 9 10
19 8
9 20
11 10
9412
H2
11 10 9 12
13
15
12 11
10 13
16
5 14
13 12
1
10
15
17
+3
14 13 2
15 18 7 16
15 14
16 17 8 19
78
PH3254769
6969
3333
2222
4 5
∞∞∞∞
7272
8 9 20 1 2 13 14 15
2222
3 4
12 13 4 15
3 14
5555
5555
7272
5500
2922
14 15 16 17 18 9 10
18
14
aããa
16
19 20
4 15 6 17 8 19 20
5555
18
9 10
8
2727
ܣ
ܣ
ܣ
ܣ
6996
13 14
6 17
4 15 16
1 12 13
4
16 17
11
3 14 15
6666
2922
9 10
8 19 20
18 19 20
4 15
14 5
14 15
16 17 18 9 20 1
8 9 20
11 12 13
17 8 19 10
1 12
16
18
19 10
11
16
6 17 18 9 20 11
6
18 19 10
16 17 8 19 10 11
3333 ∞∞∞∞
3 4
11 12
1 12
11
1
11
2
333
2222
2727
Design SR109:v = 30, r =
9,
m 10, n= 3,
k
λ. = 0,
=
10,
b = 27
2
=
23
A
= 729/10
1
0, c₂
1/3, H= 171/10,
E= .90, E₂ = .93, E = .93
Solution:
3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual:
A D(3), Speckman (1970)
18
Groups: (10,3)
Plan: 1
11
21
22
222
1
2 3
11
21
1
11
21
22222
12 13
≈ w w x w w & to w
3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10
13
23 24
25
14 15 16 17 18 19 10
26 27 28 29 10
14 15
16
27 28 29 20
13 24
25
26 7 8 9 20
22 23 4
5
6 17
18 19 20
3 24
25
26
17 18 19 30
4
5
6 27 28 29 30
23 14
15 16
7
8 9 30
222222222
11
Design SR108:v = 20, r = 10,
m
10, n= 2,
=
k = 10,
λ, = 0,
b=
= 20
A2
=
25
21
1
12
11 22
E,
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/2, H= 19, A = 90
.90, E₂ = .95, E = .94
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary, Preece
21
11
21
222222222
1 12 23
23
1 12 23
to a w w w www x
3
13 24
24
13
4
24
4
13
(1967)
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (10,2)
1
11
2
21 12
3233
5555555555555
4 15 26 7 18 29
14 25 6 17 28 9 10
16 27 8 19
14 25 6 27
8 19 20
5 16 7 18
29 20
15 26 17 28 9 20
16 17 28 9 30
15
26 27 8 19 30
14 25 6 7 18 29
22 13 4 25 16 7 28 19 10
14 5 26 17 8 29 10
24 15 6 27 18 9 10
1 22 13 14 5 26 27 18 9 20
11 2 23 24 15
6 7 28 19 20
21 12 3 4 25 16 17
1 22 13 24 15 6 17 8 29 30
11 2 23 4 25 16 27 18 9 30
21 12 3 14 5 26
8 29 20
7 28 19 30
2222222222≈≈≈
10
10
30
171
\n--- PAGE 00000184 ---\nTABLE VII. Semiregular group divisible designs - Continued
Design SR110:v = 90,
0, c₂
m
10,
r = 9,
n= 9,
=
k = 10,
λ₂
b= 81
0, A2
= 1
1/9, H= 171/10, A = 729/10
E, .90, E₂ = .91, E= .91
Solution:
Nonunique; nonresolvable, Bose and
Connor (1952)
Complement: Not listed, r = 72
Dual: The BIB design (81,90,10,9,1), Roy and
Laha (1956).
Groups: (10,9)
Plan:
To construct the b = 81 blocks of this
design one can start with a solution for
the symmetrical balanced incomplete block
design (v, b, r, k, λ) = (91, 91, 10, 10, 1). It
is known [see Marshall Hall, Jr., J. Dean
Swift and Raymond Killgrove (1959)]
that there exist four solutions for this
design, but one solution may be found in
T. Kitagwa and M. Mitome (1955). From
this design select for deletion 10 blocks
containing a common treatment (say the
treatment labeled 91). Upon removal of
the 10 chosen blocks, strike out the
common treatment (91) and use the 10
subsets so obtained as the 'groups' for
the desired GD design. The set of 81
residual blocks constitute a solution for
design SR110. The groups will not be in
the standardized form, and therefore,
relabeling of treatments both in the plan
and in the groups would be required if
standardization is desired.
Since there exist 4 distinct solutions
for the SBIB design and since the deletion
of blocks from each of them can be done in
91 ways, it should be simple, though
tedious, to construct several independent
plans for this GD design.
1
I
172
\n--- PAGE 00000185 ---\nReference
number
E
Dual designs
TABLE VIII. Regular group divisible designs: parameters and auxiliary information
Efficiencies
Number
n
λι
N = vr
Unique
solution
of solutions Complementary design
given
E₁
E2 E
Literature sources
R1
R2
R3
4558
2
8
5
R4
R5
R6
67
7
2
22
22
2 10
2 10
2
2 12
2
22222
2222
2
2
231
.80
.75 .60 .64
.53 .60
20
2
.60 .69 .65 20 Yes
1225
16
Yes
1 TSC
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
Yes
1 TSC
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
1 TSC
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
2
83
.48 .56
24 Yes
1 TSC
irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
2
1
86 .43
.51
28 Yes
1 TSC
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
2 14
2
R7
7
R8
8
R9
R10
R11
R12
222222
2 14
2
2
2 16
2
222
2 3
2
.71 63
.66
28 Yes
1 TSC
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
1
3
.57 .69
64
28 Yes
1 TSC
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
1
87 39
48
32 Yes
1 TSC
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
2 16
2
2
2
75 .60
64
32 Yes
1 TSC
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
2 16
2
2
9 2 18
2
2
9 2 18
2
2
R13
9 2 18
2
R14
10
2 20
2
22222
2
3
62
.68
66
32 Yes
1 TSC
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
7
1
.89 .36
44
36 Yes
1 TSC
Irregular.
Liu and Chang (1964).
2
78 .57
.62
36 Yes
1 TSC
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
2
4
56 .68 63
36 Yes
1 TSC
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
2
1 .90 .33 .42
40 Yes
1 TSC
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
R15
4
10
2
20
2
2
R16
4 10
2
20
2
22
2
.80 .53
.60
40 Yes
TSC
Irregular.
Clatworthy (2955).
3 70 65
66
40 Yes
1 TSC
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
R17
10
2 20
2
2
2
4
.60
.69
.65
40 Yes
1
TSC
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
R18
6
4 2 12
3
2
0
1
50
60
58
24 Yes
R96
A D(5), Ramakrishnan (1956).
Clatworthy (1955).
R19
6 6
2 18
3
67
.57 59
36 Yes
NL, r=12
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
R20
6
2 21
2
2
1
.55
58
42 Yes
1
NL, r=14
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
R21
6 7
2 21
3
1
71
.54
56
42 Yes
1
NL, r=14
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
R22
6 8
2 24
3
1
.75
.50
.54
48 Yes
1
NL, r=16
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
R23
R24
69
6 8
2 24
3
2 50 60
58
48 Yes
1
NL, r=16
A D(6), Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1955).
6 8
2
24
2
2
.56 .61 .59
48 Yes
1
NL, r=16
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
R25
S
2
R26
6 9
R27
6 9
2
222
27
2
1 67
.50 .56
54 Yes
1
NL, r=18
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
2 27
3
5
1
.78
.47
51
54 Yes
NL, r=18
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
27
3
2
56 61
60
54 Yes
NL, r=18
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
R28
6 10 2 30 3
2
6
1
.80
.44
48
60 Yes
1 NL, r=20
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
R29
8 6 2 24
2
1
50 .57
.56
48 Yes
NL, r=18
A D(5), Ramakrishnan (1956).
Clatworthy (1955).
R30
8 8 2 32
62 .56
.56
64 Yes
1
NL, r=24
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
R31
8
9
2
R32
8 10
2
R33
8 10
2
222
36
67
.53 55
72 Yes
1
NL, r=27
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
40
60
.53
.56
80 Yes
1
NL, r=30
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
40
70 .51
.53
80 Yes
1
NL, r=30
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
R34
9 6 2
R35
9 10 2
R36
10
2
R37
10 10
2
R38
12 8
2
R39
12 9
2
R40
12 10
2
2222222
27
50 56
55
54 Yes
NL, r=21
Not a D(X), x=1,2.
Clatworthy (1955).
45
54
.55
90 Yes
NL, r=35
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
40
5
0
50
.56 55
80 Yes
1 NL, r=32
A D(5), Ramakrishnan (1956).
Clatworthy (1955).
2
0
20
60 .55
55
100 Yes
NL, r=40
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
50 .55 .53 96 Yes
NL, r=40
Not a D(x), x=1,2.
Clatworthy (1955).
0
50 .55 54
108 Yes
1
NL, r=45
Not a D(x), x=1,2.
Clatworthy (1955).
50 55
54
120 Yes
1
NL, r=50
A D(5), Ramakrishnan (1956).
Clatworthy (1955).
173
\n--- PAGE 00000186 ---\nReference
number
4
Dual designs
TABLE VIII. Regular group divisible designs: parameters and auxiliary information-Continued
E
Z
Efficiencies
Number
N=W
Unique
solution
of solutions Complementary design
given
E₁
E, E
Literature source
R41
15
10
R42
6 3 3
23
2 75
3
3 2
70
52
33
56
5
1
2
1
--
.50
.89
6990
.54
.76
$55
.52
.78
188
150 Yes
1
NL, r=65
18 Yes
1
TSC
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
TSD.
R43
6
6
3
12
2 3 3
2 .83 .77 .79
36 No
2 Sol. 1, 2: TSC
Sol. 1, 2: Irregular.
Sol. 1: TSC
R44
6
3 12 3
2
2 .89 .76 .78
36 No
2
Sol. 2: TSC
R45
6 7 3 14
2
42.86
.86 .73.78
42 No
2 Sol. 1, 2: TSC
Sol. 1, 2: Irregular.
R46
6
7
3
14 3 2
2
3 .76 .81 .80
42 No
2 Sol. 1, 2: TSC
Sol. 1, 2: Irregular.
R47
6 8
3
166
2 3
5
2 .87 .70
.76
48 No
2 Sol. 1, 2: TSC
Sol. 1, 2: Irregular.
R48
3
16
3
3 2
3
.83 .79 .80
48 No
2
Sol. 1, 2: TSC
Sol. 1, 2: Irregular.
R49
3 18
R50
R51
66
18
3
18
R52
6
R53
6 10
R54
R55
R56
90369
3
18
20
8
3 16
11920
33
3 24
3223 ~ ~ ~ 2
23322444
2
.89 .67 .74
54 ?
1
TSC
6
.89 .76
.78
54 ?
TSC
2
.74
.81 .79
54 ?
1 TSC
3
.78 .81 .80
54 Yes
1 TSC
.90 64 .72
60 ?
1 TSC
0
1 .67 .76 .75
24 Yes
1 R134
2
0
22
2 .67 .76
6 2 .89 .71
.75
48 ?
1
R136
.73
72 ?
1
NL, r=15
R57
9
3
R58
6
3
R59
5
R60
3 18
R61
9
7 3
R62
7 3 21
NELL 2 N
24
4
2
0 3 .67 .76 .75 72 ?
24
4
2
2 3
.74 .77 .76
15
21
3 3
23
3333
3333
.80 .72 .74
1
.83 68 .71
1 .86 64 69
1
2
.71 .76 .75
R63
3 24
3
3
5
1 .87 .61
.66
382 8
1
NL, r=15
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
72 No
2
NL, r=15
Sol. 2: not a D(x), x =1, 2, 3.
45 ?
1
R165
Irregular.
54 ?
1
NL, r=12
Irregular.
63 ?
1
NL, r=14
Irregular.
63 ?
1
NL, r=14
Irregular.
72 No
2 NL, r=16
Sol. 1, 2: Irregular.
R64
99 3
3 27
3
3
6
1 .89
.57 .63
81 No
2 NL, r=18
(Sol. 1: Irregular.
Sol. 2: Irregular.
Sol. 1: Irregular.
R65
9
3
27
3
3
3 2
.78
.74
75 81 No
3 NL, r=18
R66
9
10
3 30
3
7
1
.90
.54
.60
90 No
2 NL, r-20
Sol. 1: a D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 2: not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3.
Irregular.
a D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Irregular.
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
Irregular.
TSD.
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
Sol. 1: not a D(x), x =1, 2, 3.
Sol. 2: not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
Sol. 3: not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
(Sol. 1: Irregular.
Sol. 2: Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
BCS (1954) [Thompson (1956), Freeman
(1957)).
Sol. 1: BSC (1954).
Sol. 2: Freeman (1957).
Clatworthy (1956).
Sprott (1955) [Freeman (1957)].
Sol. 1: Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 2: Freeman (1957).
Sol. 1: Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 2: Freeman (1957).
Sol. 1: Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 2: Freeman (1957).
Sol. 1: Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 2: Freeman (1957).
Freeman (1957).
Clatworthy (1956).
Freeman (1957).
Freeman (1957) [Ikeda (1967)].
Liu and Chang (1964).
BCS(1954).
Clatworthy (1956).
Sprott (1955) [Freeman (1957), Ikeda
(1967)).
BCS (1954).
Sol. 1 BCS (1954).
Sol. 2 John (1966).
BCS (1954) (Clatworthy (1967)].
BCS (1954) [Clatworthy (1967)].
Clatworthy (1956), (1967).
BCS (1954) [Clatworthy (1967)].
Sol. 1: Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 2: Clatworthy (1967).
Sol. 1: Liu and Chang (1964).
Sol. 2: Clatworthy (1967).
Sol. 1: BCS (1954) [Clatworthy (1967)].
Sol. 2: Freeman (1957).
Sol. 3: John (1966).
Sol. 1: Liu and Chang (1964).
Sol. 2: Clatworthy (1967).
174
\n--- PAGE 00000187 ---\nSol. 1: Irregular.
R67
9
R68
10
10
3
30
3 3
2
.80
་
R69
10
96
R70
R71
12
R72
12
R73
12
R74
12
R75
12
R76
R77
12
R78
ನನ ನನನನನನನ
12
33
5
30 3
20
5
35
2
32
.70
1
.89
828
.72
.76
228
.74
90
No
2 NL, r=20
Sol. 2: Irregular.
.74
90 ?
1
NL, r=20
Irregular.
.68 .70
60 ?
1
NL, r=14
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
3
20
7
28
7
28
36
12
10
40
10
12 10
33
40
40
66362 & 3 64
82242-GO
2242634 23
.67 .73
78
.72
2
1 .76
.70
222
.72
72
1
.86 69
.70
1
.75
69
72
2 .67 .73
222822
60 ?
NL, r=15
Not a D(x), x=1,2.
Sol. 1: Clatworthy (1956, 1967).
Sol. 2: John (1966).
BCS (1954) [Clatworthy (1967)].
Freeman (1957) [Liu and Chang (1964)
Ikeda (1967)).
BCS (1954).
72 ?
1
NL, r=18
Irregular.
BCS (1954).
84
?
1
NL, r=21
Irregular.
84
?
1
NL, r=21
Irregular.
96 ?
1
NL, r=24
Irregular.
108 ?
1
NL, r=27
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
1 80 .64
68
120 ?
1
NL, r=30
Irregular.
22
2 .67 .73
2 .70
.73
323
.72
22
.72 120
?
1
NL, r=30
Not a D(x), x=1,2.
120 ?
1
NL, r=30
Not a D(x), x-1, 2, 3.
R79
143
6
3
28 7
2 0
1
.67 .72 .71
84 No
2 NL, r=22
R80
14
3 42
7
2
.89 .65
.67
126 ?
1 NL, r=33
R81
15
30 5 3 0
1.67 .71 .71 90 No
2 NL, r=24
Sol. 1: Irregular.
R82
15
40 5
3
2
1 .75
.70
.71
R83
15
3
45
15
3
5
2
1 .74
.69 .71
ངང
120 No
2 NL, r=32
Sol. 2: Irregular.
135 ?
2 NL, r=36
Sol. 1: Irregular.
Sol. 2: Irregular.
R84
15
15
5
1
.78 69 .70
135 No
2
NL, r-36
Sol. 1: Irregular.
Sol. 2: Irregular.
Sol. 1: Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
|Sol. 2: Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
Sol. 1: Not a D(x), x=1, 2. |
|Sol. 2: Not a D(x), x =1, 2. J
BCS (1954).
Clatworthy (1956).
BCS (1954).
Freeman (1957).
BCS (1954).
BCS (1954).
(Sol. 1: BCS (1954).
Sol. 2: Bose and Nair (1939) [P. M. Roy
(1954c), Clatworthy (1967)].
Freeman (1957) [Ikeda (1967)].
Sol. 1: BCS (1954); Sol. 2: John (1966).
Sol. 1: BCS (1954).
Sol. 2: Clatworthy (new).
Sol. 1: BCS (1954).
Sol. 2: John (1966).
Sol. 1: BCS (1954).
Sol. 2: Clatworthy (new).
BCS (1954).
R85
15
R86
16
R87
16
R88
R89
18
R90
20
R91
21
R92
R93
R94
FKKER22224
10
18
10
ខខខខàនម
10
7
80
462
3442223643
5445
1 .80 .67 .68
150 No
1
NL, r=40
Irregular.
Clatworthy, new
1
.67 .71 .70
96 ?
1
NL, r=26
Not a D(x), (x)=1, 2.
BCS (1954).
74 .70 .71
144 ?
1
NL, r-39
Irregular.
BCS (1954).
.71
.70
144 ?
1
NL, r=40
Not a D(x), x=1,2.
BCS (1954).
2
0
.70
.70
162 ?
1
NL, r=45
Not a D(x), x-1,2.
BCS (1954).
.70
.70
180 ?
1
NL, r=51
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
BCS (1954).
.70
.70
189 ?
1
NL, r=54
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
BCS (1954).
67
.70
69
216 ?
1
NL, r-63
Not a D(x), x=1,2.
BCS (1954).
0
1
67 .70
69
240 ?
1
NL, r=70
Not a D(x), x=1,2.
BCS (1954).
2
94 .87
24 Yes
1
A disconnected
TSD.
design.
R95
12
2
R96
12
3
R97
5
10
R98
16
3
2
1 A disconnected A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
Irregular.
(Sol. 1 Irregular.
6 Sol. 1-6: TSC
Sol. 2, 3, 4: not aD(x), x=1, 2, 3.
Sol. 5: Irregular.
Sol. 6: not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
BCS (1954) [Sprott (1955), Freeman
(1957), David and Wolock (1965)
Masuyama (1967)].
BCS (1954).
BCS (1954), altered.
Freeman (1957) (John (1966)]
Sol. 1: Freeman (1957).
Sol. 2: Ikeda (1967).
Sol. 3: John (1966).
Sol. 4, 5, 6: Utilizing constructions of
Nandi (1946b)
.94 .87 .89
Yes
395
.87 .91 .90
2 .90 .85 .85
តន
48 Yes
40 ?
1
design.
R18
1 TSC
52
22
3
.87 .84 .85 64 No
175
\n--- PAGE 00000188 ---\nTABLE VIII. Regular group divisible designs: parameters and auxiliary information-Continued
Efficiencies
Number
Reference
number
V
k
E
n
λι
λε
N=VI Unique
solution
of solutions Complementary design
given
Dual designs
E₁ E2 E
R99
8
4
16
4
2 6 3 .94 .83 85
R100
8 9 4
18
2
4
5
00
64 ?
1 TSC
Irregular.
3 .89 .82 .85
72 No
5
Sol. 1, 2, 3, 4,
5: TSC
R101
8
9 4
18
4
2 3
R102
8 10
20 2
4 .83 .86 .86
6 3 .90
72 ?
.80
.84
80 No
1 TSC
Sol. 1, 2, 3, 4:
TSC
Sol. 1, 2, 3, 4: Irregular.
Literature sources
R103
8 10
4
20 4
2 6
4 .90
.85 .85
80 No
6 Sol. 1-6: TSC
R104
9
9 3 3 3 1 .94
.77 .80
36 ?
1 R137
R105
9 8
18 3
3
6 2
.94
.77 .80
72 No
2
R106 10 8
4
20
5
2 0 3 .75
.83 .82
80 ?
R107 10 10
4 25 2 5 5 2 .87
R108
10 10
10
4 25
2
4 25 5 2 6 3 .90
6
.82 83
.76 .81 100 No
100 No
(Sol. 1: R138,
Sol. 1.
Sol. 2: R138,
Sol. 2.
1 NL, r=12
3 NL, r=15
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3, 4.
3 NL, r=15
Sol. 1, 2, 3: irregular.
Sol. 1, 2, 3: Irregular.
R109
12 4 4 12 6 2 2 1.87.81 81 48 No
2
R110
12
8 4 24
6 2
→
2 .87
-81
.81
R111
12 10
10 4 30 3
2
3 .80 .82 .82
96 No
120 No
Sol. 1: R186,
Sol 1.
Sol. 2: R186,
Sol. 2.
3 NL, r=16
2 NL, r=20
R112
14
4
143
7 2 0
1 .75 .81 .80
56 ?
1 R205
R113
R114
145
14 8
15
R115
15
R116
15
55
84
∞ ∞
1385
28 7
30
30
23
33
75
55
27
0 2 .75 .81
3
12
0
6
0
.75 .80
.94 .70
2 .75 .80
1880
.80
.80
880
112 ?
1
NL, r=20
a D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5: Irregular.
Irregular.
Sol. 1, 2, 3, 4: Irregular.
Sol. 5, 6: not a D(x), x =1, 2, 3.
TSD, Clatworthy (1971).
Sol. 1: a D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 2: Not a D(x), x =1, 2, 3, 4.
Sol. 1, 2: TSD, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971).
Sol. 1, 2: a D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 3: not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
Sol. 1: not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3, 4.
Sol. 2: Irregular.
TSD, Clatworthy (1971).
Freeman (1957).
Sol. 1, 2, 3, 4: utilizing constructions of
Nandi (1946b).
Sol. 5: John (1966).
Freeman (1957).
Sol. 1, 2, 3, 4: Derived from solutions for
R98.
Sol. 1: Liu and Chang (1964).
Sol. 2: Freeman (1957).
Sol. 3: John (1966).
Sol. 4, 5, 6: Utilizing constructions of Nandi
(1946b).
BCS (1954).
Sol. 1: Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 2: Sprott (1955) [Freeman (1957)].
BCS(1954).
Sol. 1: Freeman (1957).
Soi. 2: utilizing constructions by Nandi
Sol. 3:
(1946a).
Sol. 1: Freeman (1957) [Liu and Chang
(1964)].
Sol. 2: utilizing constructions by Nandi
Sol. 3:
(1946a).
[Sol. 1: BCS (1954) [David & Wolock
(1965)].
Sol. 2: Freeman (1957).
Sol. 1: Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 2, 3: Freeman (1957).
Sol. 1: BCS (1954).
Sol. 2: John (1966).
BCS (1954 [Sprott (1959), David and
Wolock (1965), John (1966)].
BCS (1954).
60 ?
1
NL,1=11
135
88
.73
30
120 ?
1 NL,r=22
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
80
120 ?
1 | NL, r=22
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy BCS (1954) [David and Wolock (1965),
(1971).
John (1966)).
Freeman (1957) [Ikeda (1967)].
BCS (1954).
176
\n--- PAGE 00000189 ---\nR117
15 8
30
5
1
2.78
1188
.80
120 No
2 NL,r=22
R118
16
R119
16 7
28
R120
16
32
R121
16
36
R122
16
36
R123
16
10
R124
20
9
R125
24 7
R126
24 9
2 22229427
24
2
.83
.78
.79
96 No
2
NL,r-18
86
.76 .78
112 ?
1 NL, r=21
Irregular.
87 .74 .76
128 ?
1 | NL, r=24
Irregular.
89
.71 .74
144 ?
1| NL, r=27
Irregular.
.78
.80 80
144 ?
1
NL, r=27
Irregular.
40
.90 69 .72
160 ?
1
NL, r=30
Irregular.
45
.83 .76 .77
180 ?
1
NL, r=36
Irregular.
1 .75 .78 .78
168 ?
1❘ NL, r=35
Not a D(x), x =1,2.
54
1 .83 .77 .77
216 ?
1 NL, r=45
Irregular.
R127
24 10
60
R128
26 8
52
13
R129
27 8
54
R130
28
56
R131
28 10
70
R132
30 10
75 15
R133
5
823
3347742
.80
.77
1 .75 .78
.75
22
1 .80
2 2 1 .80 .77 .78 300 ?
2 .96 .85 .90
FRRRFE
.78
.75 .78 .78 208 ?
.78
78
.77
RRRERRE
240 ?
1
NL, r=50
Irregular.
Sol. 1: Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
|Sol. 2: Nota D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
Sol.:1: Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
Sol. 2: Irregular.
Sol. 1: BCS (1954).
Sol. 2: John (1966).
Sol. 1: BCS (1954).
Sol. 2: Clatworthy (1967).
BCS (1954) [Clatworthy (1967)).
Clatworthy (1967).
Clatworthy (1956, 1967).
BCS (1954) [Clatworthy (1967)].
Clatworthy (1967).
BCS(1954).
BCS (1954).
Bose, Shrikhande, and Bhattacharya
(1953).
BCS (1954).
1
NL, r=44
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
BCS (1954).
216
?
1
NL, r=46
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
BCS (1954).
224
?
1
NL, r=48
Not a D(x), x=1,2.
BCS (1954).
.78 280 ?
1❘ NL, r=60
Irregular.
BCS (1954).
1
NL, r=65
Not a D(x) x=1,2.
40 Yes
1
A disconnected
design
R134
R135
10
R136
10
R137
9 5
5
5
5
2
2 3
.92 .91
40 ?
1 R54
TSD, Clatworthy (1971.)
5
55
16
2
.85
.90
80 Yes
design
6
43
23
2
ទន
885
92 .91
86
1780
80 ?
1
R55
45 ?
1
R104
Sol. 1: R105
Sol. 1
Sol. 1:a D(3) Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 2: not a D(x) x=1,2,3,4.
R138
5 18
3 8
.96 86 .89
90 No
2
Sol. 2: R105
Sol. 2
R139
10 5
5
5
5 10 5
24
2 .96
.87 .88 50 ?
1 TSC
TSD, Clatworthy (1971.)
1 A disconnected A D(3) Clatworthy(1956).
A D(3) Clatworthy (1956).
TSD Clatworthy (1971).
BCS (1954).
Bose and Nair (1939) [Sprott (1955),
Clatworthy (1956), Freeman (1957),
David and Wolock (1965), John (1966)].
Clatworthy (1956) [David and Wolock
(1965), John (1966)].
Clatworthy (1956.)
Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956) [Freeman (1957),
Davil and Wolock (1965), John (1966)].
Sol. 1: Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 2: Freeman (1957).
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy Thompson (1955) [Clatworthy (1956),
(1971)
Freeman (1957), David and Wolock
(1956), John (1966)].
Sol. 1: Liu and Chang (1964).
R140
10 7
5 14
5
24 3 .91
88 .89
70 No
2
(Sol. 1: SC but
not TCS
Sol. 2: R140
Sol. 1
Sol. 1: Irregular.
Sol. 2: not a D(x) x=1,2,3.
Sol* 2: Complement of Solution 1.
(Sol. 1: SC
Sol. 1: Irregular.
R141
10 10 5
220
2 5 5 4.90
88
but not TSC
.89
100 No
2
Sol. 2: SC
Sol. 2: Irregular.
but not TSC
R142
10 10 5
20
5 2
R143
1227
5
5
12
3
.96
.77
ཟུཝ
96 .87 .88 100 No
.81
88
60 ?
2 Sol. 1, 2: TSC
1 R174
Sol. 1: a D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 2: not a D(x), x =1, 2, 3, 4.
TSD, Clatworthy (1971).
Sol. 1: Freeman (1957).
Sol. 2: John (1966).
Sol. 1:Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 2: Freeman (1957).
Clatworthy (1956) [Freeman (1957), David
and Wolock (1965)).
177
\n--- PAGE 00000190 ---\nReference Y
number
k
E
TABLE VIII. Regular group divisible designs: parameters and auxiliary information-Continued
Efficiencies
x
E₁ E₂
W
Number
N=VT
Unique
solutions
of solutions Complementary design
given
Dual designs
Literature sources
R144
12 5 5 12 6 2 0 2.80 .87 .87
60 ?
1 R175
(R176, Sol. 1
Sol. 1: TSD, Clatworthy (1971).
R145
12 5 5 12 4 3 1 2 84 88 87
60 No
2
R146
12 10
СЛ
5 24 3 4 8 2 .96 .77
.81
R147
122
10 5 24 6
20
4
.80 .87
.87
120 No
120 ?
R176, Sol. 2
2 NL, r=14
1 NL, r=14
R148
12 10
5 24
3
2
4 .84
.88 .87 120 No
2 NL, r=14
R149
15
R150
15
110
5 5
10 5 30 5
5 30
30
3
8 2
.96
.80
5
3
2
3 .84 .86 .86
R151
R152
R153
122
20
10
24
905
18 10 5 36
555
5 40
24
956
9
2
5
27
2 .96 .82 .83
1 96 .71
1
88 28
.82
150 ?
1
NL, r=20
150 No
2
NL, r=20
180 ?
1
NL, r=26
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3, 4.
.74
200 ?
1
NL, r=30
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
.80 .83 .83 120 ?
1
NL, r=19
(1971).
R155
25
R156
445
R154 24 10 5
7 5 35
25 8
R157
25
R158
25
10
R159
35 10 5
R160
39
10
R161
40 9
89
†R162
44 10
сл сл слся слслался сл
48
5
40
45
5 50
65555
2
.80 .83
5
5
1
.86
.82
5
5
с с
888
.83
.83
8888
240 ?
1
NL, r=38
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
175
?
1
NL, r=28
Irregular.
.87
.81
.82 200 ?
1
NL, r=32
Irregular.
5
5
.89 .79
.81 225 ?
1
NL, r=36
Irregular.
5
5
70
5 7
.84 .82
5
78 13
3
1 .84
.82
5
72 10
80 .82 .82
5
88 11
1
22222
1 .90 .78 .79 250 ?
1
NL, r=40
Irregular.
.82
350 ?
1
NL, r=60
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
82
390 ?
1
NL, r=68
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy Clatworthy (1956) [David and Wolock
(1971).
Sol. 2: TSD, Clatworthy (1971).
Sol. 1: a D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
||Sol. 2: not a D(x), x =1, 2, 3, 4.
a D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
(Sol. 1: a D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Sol 2:not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3, 4.
Sol. 3: a D(3), Clatworthy (1956)
Not a D(x),x=1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
Sol. 1: not a D(x), x =1, 2, 3.
|Sol. 2: not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3.
(1965). John (1966)].
Sol. 1 Bose and Nair (1939), p 369 [Clat-
worthy (1956), John (1966), David and
Wolock (1965)].
Sol. 2 David and Wolock (1965).
Sol. 1: Clatworthy (1956).
Sol 2: Sprott (1955) [Freeman (1957).]
Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 1: Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 2: John (1966).
Sol. 3: Derived from R145, Sol. 2.
Freeman (1957) [Ikeda (1967)], adapted.
Sol. 1: BCS (1954).
Sol. 2: John (1966).
Ikeda (1967), corrected and adapted.
Freeman (1957).
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy BCS (1954).
BCS (1954).
BCS (1954) [Clatworthy (1967)].
BCS (1954), Clatworthy (1967).
Clatworthy (1967).
Clatworthy (1967).
BCS (1954).
BCS (1954).
360 ?
1
NL, r=63
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
BSC (1954).
.80 .82 .82 440 ?
1
NL, r=78
R163
R164
58
56
69
R165
R166
10
90
R167
12
R168
15
R169
18
R170
27
2587
18
R171
28
99
45 10 5 90 9
9 6 12 2
9 10 6 15 3
6 10
6 18
6 24
6 27
6 28 7
3
320
32
50
66
96
55
4533
336 9
15222
54
35
92
0
1
.80
30
.82
7 6 .96 .94 .95
380
.82
38
450 ?
1
NL, r=80
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
72 Yes
1
A disconnected
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
design.
7
5
7 6 .95 .93
5
2 .97 .85 .90
3 .96
2 .94
55
35
90
.94 90 ?
1
R59
Irregular.
60 Yes
1
A disconnected
design.
(1971).
.87
.97 .77 .82
.87
32
1
.92 .85 .86
1 .89
.86
តតឌឌ
.89
.87
.86
887888
108 ?
1
TSC
A D(3).
90 ?
1
R194
TSD, Clatworthy, (1971).
144 ?
1
NL, r=16
Irregular.
162 ?
1
NL, r=21
SD, Hoffman (1963).
168 ?
1
NL, r=22
SD, Hoffman (1963).
Bose, Shrikhande, and Bhattacharya,
(1953).
BCS (1954).
Clatworthy (1956) [Freeman (1957),
John (1966)).
Freeman (1957).
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy Bose and Nair (1939) [Sprott (1955),
Freeman (1957)].
Freeman (1957)]Ikeda (1967)], adapted.
Clatworthy (1956) [Freeman (1957)].
Freeman (1957).
Freeman (1957).
Archbold (1955) and Archbold and
Johnson (1956), adapted.
178
\n--- PAGE 00000191 ---\nR172
9
7
7:
9
3
3
6
Сл
.98
.96 .96
63 Yes
1
R173
121
7
7
R174
12 7 7
121
121
2
6 6 2 .98 .84 .90
84 Yes
1 A disconnected
3
4
6
3 .98 .90 .92
84 ?
1
design.
R143
R175
127
7 12 6 2 2
.90 .94 93 84 ?
1 R144
(Sol. 1: R145,
Sol. 1
R176
12 7 7 12
3
3 4
.92 .94 .93
84 No
2
Sol. 2: R145,
Sǝl. 2
R177
14 7
7
141
7 2 6 3 .98
.91
.92
98 ?
1 TSC
R178
18 7
7 18
3
6
6
1 .98
.77
.82
88
126 ?
1| NL, r=11
R179
20
20
7
7 20
5 3
2 .92 .90 .90
140 ?
1 NL, r=13
R180
20 7
7 20 10 2
6
2
-98
.89
.89
140 ?
1 NL, r=13
A disconnected TSD, Clatworthy (1971).
design.
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy Bose and Nair (1939), Clatworthy (1956)
(1971).
[Freeman (1957)].
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy Clatworthy (1956) [Freeman (1957), David
(1971).
and Wolock (1965)], adapted.
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy Clatworthy (1956) [David and Wolock
(1971).
(1965) John (1966)].
Sol. 1, 2: TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Sol. 1: Clatworthy (1956) [John (1966)]
Clatworthy (1971).
Sol. 2: Comp. of David's (1965) solution
TSD. Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy Thompson (1955) [Clatworthy (1956),
(1971).
Freeman (1957)].
TSD, Hoflman (1963) and Clatworthy Clatworthy (1956).
(1971).
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy Bose and Nair (1939).
(1971).
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy Ikeda (1967), adapted.
(1971).
Clatworthy (1956) [Freeman (1957), John
(1966)).
R181
R182
33
R183
48
2385
10
277
7
40
7
7 48
305
7 33 3 11
8
6
R184
R185
49 9
49 10
90
7
38993
63 7 7
སས
སས
7 70 7 7 3 1 .90 .86 .87
320
23
2 .90 .88
1
.90 .87
1 86 .88 .87
888888
88888
.89 280 ?
1
NL, r=30
Irregular.
231 ?
1
NL, r=26
Self dual, Hoffman (1963).
336 ?
1
NL, r=41
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy
Clatworthy, new.
BCS (1954).
BCS (1954).
(1971).
.89
980
.87
8886
.87
ឌ ឌ
441 ?
1
NL, r=54
Irregular.
BCS (1954) Clatworthy (1967).
490 ?
1
NL, r=60
Irregular.
BCS (1954) Clatworthy (1967).
(Sol. 1: R109,
R186
12 8
12 6 2 6
5
.97
6
.95
.95
96 No
2
Sol. 1
Sol. 2: R109,
Soi. 2
R187
14 8
14 2
7
-d
7
2.98
.84 .90
112 Yes
1 A disconnected
design.
R188
21
8
21
3
and
7
7
1
.98
.77 .82
168 ?
1 NL, r=13
Sol. 1: TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Sol. 1: John (1966) adapted.
Clatworthy (1971).
Sol. 2: TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Sol. 2: Complement of a solution by Free-
Clatworthy (1971).
man (1957).
TSD Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy Bose and Nair (1939) Clatworthy (1956)
(1971).
[Freeman (1957)].
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy Clatworthy (1956) [Freeman (1957)).
(1971).
R189
24
R190
48
R191
248
24
48 12
42
.94 .90
.91
192 ?
1
NL, r=16
94
.88
.89
384 ?
1
NL, r=40
SD, Hoffman (1963).
Bose and Nair (1939).
Freeman (1957).
63 8
63
9
1
88 .89 .89 504 ?
1
NL, r=55
R192
64 10
R193
12
D9
125
89
80
9 12
020
3
83
84
28
.90
6
.99
99
.89
.89
659
640 ?
1
NL, r=70
.96 .97 108 Yes
1
A disconnected
design.
R194
15
99 15
3 5
.99 .93 .94 135 ?
1 R168
R195
16 9 9
9 16
2
2
.99
.83
.90
144 Yes
R196
18 9
18
.96
.94
.94
195
1 A disconnected
design
(Sol. 1: SC
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy BCS (1954), Bose and Nair (1939), p. 359.
(1971).
Irregular.
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy Clatworthy (1956) [Freeman (1957), John
(1971).
(1966)].
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy Clatworthy (1956) [Freeman (1957)].
(1971).
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy Bose and Nair (1939) [Clatworthy (1956),
(1971).
Freeman (1957)].
162 ?
2 Sol. 2: R196,
Sol. 1
So.. 1 & 2: SD, Hoffman (1963).
Freeman (1957).
BCS (1954), Clatworthy (1967).
179
\n--- PAGE 00000192 ---\nTABLE VIII. Regular group divisible designs: parameters and auxiliary information-Continued
Efficiencies
Number
Reference
number
V
1
E
N=VI
Unique
solutions
of solutions Complementary design
given
Dual designs
Literature sources
E₁
E,
E
R197
18 9 9 18 9 2
.99 .94
.94
162 ?
2 SC
Sol. 1 & 2: SD, Hoffman (1963).
R198
24
9
9
24 3
1.99
.76
16
.82
22
216 ?
1 NL, r=15
Sol. 1: Thompson (1956), Freeman (1957)
Sol. 2: Ikeda (1967), adapted.
TSD Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy Clatworthy (1956) [Freeman (1957)].
(1971).
R199
26
R200
+R201
R202
2228
26 13 2
0
3 .89 .92 .92
234 ?
1|| NL, r=17
SD.
28 4
7 5
2 .95
.90 .91
252 ?
1
NL, r=19
SD, Hoffman (1963).
78 9
9 78 13
6
0
1
.89
.90 90
702 ?
1
NL, r=69
SD, Hoffman (1963).
Bannerjee (1951).
Sprott (1959).
80 9
9
80
10
.89
.90 .90
720 ?
1
NL, r=71
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy BCS (1954), Bose and Nair (1939), p 359.
(1971).
R203 12
10
10 12
4
3
.99 .98
.98
120 Yes
1 A disconnected
design
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy
(1971).
Liu (1963) (John (1966), Clatworthy (1967)]
R204
143
1110
10 14
2 7
8
6
.98
.96 .97
140 Yes
1 A disconnected
TSD, Clatworthy (1971).
design
Freeman (1957) [John (1966), Clatworthy
(1967)].
R205
14 10 10
14 7 2 6
7.96 .97 .97
140 ?
1 R112
R206
18
10
11110
18 2
9
2
.99
.83 .90
180 Yes
R207
27 10 10 27 3
9
1 .99
.76 .82
270 ?
1 NL, r=17
1 A disconnected
design.
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy Clatworthy (1956) [John (1966)].
(1971).
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy Bose and Nair (1939) [Clatworthy (1956),
(1971).
Freeman (1957)].
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy Clatworthy (1956) [Freeman (1957)].
(1971).
R208
32 10 10 32
4
6
2 .96
.90
.92
20
320 ?
1 NL, r=22
†R209
75 10 10 75 15
5
5
1 .95
.90
.91
750 ?
1 NL, r=65
SD, Hoffman (1963).
Bose and Nair (1939).
Freeman (1957).
180
† Plan not verified by computer.
\n--- PAGE 00000193 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs
Design R5:
v = 4,
m= 2,
r =
7,
k = 2,
b= 14
n = 2,
λ₁
=
5,
2
= 1
c₁ =
5/6, c₂ =
Design R1:
v = 4,
r = 4,
k = 2,
b= 8
m= 2,
n = 2,
λ₁
=
2,
A2
= 1
C1
=
2/3, C2
=
1/3, H= 5, A = 6
E,= .75, E,= .60, E = .64
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,2)
Plan: 1 3
2
4
1
2
2
4
1
3
3
4
4
3
-1/3, H= 8, A = 12
E= .86, E,= .43, E = .51
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,2)
Plan: 1 3
2 4
12
2
34
24
13
34
2
12
~2
12
34
2
1 4
72
2
43
1
34
2 4
1
12
Design R2:
v = 4,
r = 5,
k = 2,
b= 10
m= 2,
n = 2,
A₁
=
3,
λε
= 1
c, = 3/4, c₂ =
1/8, H= 6, A = 8
E= .80, E,= .53, E = .60
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,2)
34
43
12
Plan: 1
1
2 4
2
1
3
24
2
2
2
12
34
Design R3:
v = 4, r =
5,
k
= 2,
b = 10
m= 2,
n = 2,
λ₁
=
1,
A2
= 2
=3
C1 1/3, c₂ = 13/24, H= 7, A =
E.60, E₂ = .69, E = .65
Solution: Unique; resolvable
12
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,2)
Plan:
1 3
12
2 4
1
13
3
1
2
4
24
13
24
43
12
43
12
2
1
2
Design R6:
v = 4,
m= 2,
r = 7,
n = 2,
k = 2,
b= 14
λ₁
= 3,
A2
- 2
=
c₁ = 3/5, c₂ = 17/40, H= 9, A 20
E= .71, E₂ = .63, E = .66
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,2)
Plan: 1
2
12
34
1
2
34
1 3
34
Design R4:
= 4/5, C2
=
v = 4,
m= 2,
r = 6,
k = 2,
b= 12
n = 2, λ₁ = 4,
λ2 = 1
-1/10, H= 7, A = 10
E= .83, E₂ = .48, E= .56
2
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,2)
Plan: 1
2
2
12
34
34
24
12
13
3
34
2
34
12
43
2 3
12
13
12
2
24
43
2
1 4
12
43
2 3
24
13
Design R7:
v = 4,
m= 2,
r = 7,
n = 2,
k = 2,
b= 14
A₁
=
· 1,
2
= 3
c₁ =
1/4, c₂ = 13/24, H= 10, A = 24
E,= .57, E,= .69, E = .64
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual:
Irregular
Groups: (2,2)
Plan: 1
34
24
43
13
12
24
43
13
3
12
2
1 4
2 3
2
1 2
4
3 4
4
3
Design R8:
v = 4, r = 8,
m= 2,
n = 2,
A₁
k
=
=
2,
6,
=
14
b= 16
2
= 1
c₁ = 6/7, c₂ = -4/7, H= 9, A
E= .87, E,= .39, E = .48
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,2)
(Plan continued on next page)
181
\n--- PAGE 00000194 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs - Continued
Plan:
34
2
12
34
12
Design R12:
v = 4,
r =
= 9,
k = 2,
b= 18
m= 2,
n = 2,
λ₁
=
5,
Az
= 2
λ2
= 16
= 2
c₁ =
517,
C 2
13/56, H= 11, A = 28
E,= .78, E,= .57, E = .62
2
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,2)
Plan:
1
34
4
4
3
12
34
43
12
4
2
12
34
24
13
34
12
2
4
12
1
2
Design R9:
v = 4,
r = 8,
n= 2, λι
k
= 2,
b
=
4,
m= 2,
c₁ = 2/3, c₂ = 1/3, H= 10, A = 24
E= .75, E,= .60, E = .64
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,2)
Plan: 1 3
12
34
1
2
12
34
12
34
12
2
1
43
72
2
24
13
24
4
13
2
3
4
34
24
43
12
13
12
34
34
4
4
43
12
12
12
34
2
72
34
12
2
13
2
3 4
2 3
v = 4,
r = 9,
k = 2,
m= 2,
n = 2,
λ₁
=
: 1,
b= 18
λ. = 4
43/80, H= 13, A = 40
E,= .68, E = .63
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,2)
Plan:
34
1
24
3
13
24
1
4
Design R13:
2
3
c₁ = 1/5,
c₂
=
v = 4,
m= 2,
r = 8,
n= 2,
k = 2,
λι 2,
b= 16
E,= .56,
=
A2
= 3
30
Design R10:
Ci
=
2/5, C2 =
=
8/15, H= 11, A=
E= .62, E₂ = .68, E= .66
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,2)
Plan: 1
2
3
12
34
24
43
1
3
1
12
2
13
24
13
43
12
2
3
2 4
4
43
12
3
2
13
3
4
4
3
4
3
13
24
2
4
12
2
43
4
3
12
2
43
4
3
12
43
4
3
2
24
43
12
13
12
Design R14:
v = 4,
r = 10,
k = 2,
b= 20
v = 4,
r = 9,
k = 2,
b= 18
m= 2,
n = 2, λ₁
=
= 8,
A2
= 1
m= 2,
n = 2,
λ₁ = 7,
λ₂
= 1
=
8/9,
= 18
Design R11:
c₁ = 7/8, c₂
=
-13/16, H= 10, A = 16
E= .89, E₂ = .36, E = .44
2
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,2)
Plan:
34
12
4
2
34
12
34
12
CI
=
C 2 -19/18, H= 11, ▲ ·
E= .90, E₂ = .33, E = .42
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,2)
Plan: 1 3
1 3
1
3
1
3
2 4
2
4
2
4
2
4
4
1
3
1
3
1
3
1
3
34
2
4
2
4
2
4
2
4
1
2
1
4
43
3
4
2
3
2
12
2
2
12
34
12
34
2 4
1
72
2
24
3
13
34
2
12
182
\n--- PAGE 00000195 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs -
– Continued
Design R15:
v = 4,
r = 10,
k = 2,
b= 20
m= 2,
n = 2,
λ₁
=
6,
λ2
= 2
c₁ = 3/4, c₂
=
E= .80, E,
=
1/8, H= 12, A = 32
.53, E= .60
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,2)
Plan:
12
34
Solution:
Unique; resolvable
Complement: Design R96
Dual: A D(5), Ramakrishnan (1956)
Groups: (3,2)
Plan: 1
3
256
4 6
1
2
5
635
124
564
123
346
4 5
2
1 3
12
34
2 4
HHH
1
12
2
34
12
34
12
24
13
34
34
2
12
43
12
43
2
12
2
2
3 4
13
2
24
4
23
Design R16: v = 4,
r =
10,
k = 2,
b= 20
m= 2,
n = 2,
λ₁ = 4,
λg
Ci =
4/7, ca
19/42, H= 13, A= = 42
E= .70, E₂ = .65, E= .66
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,2)
Plan:
34
12
34
2
12
34
2
12
34
12
12
24
13
1
3
4
3 4
24
13
24
13
43
12
2
43
2
12
Design R19:
v = 6,
t=
= 6,
c, = 1/2,
=
m= 3,
k = 2,
=
b= 18
n = 2, λ₁ 2, A2 = 1
C3 1/4, H= 7, A = 12
E= .67, E,= .57, E = .59
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,2)
Plan:
456
123
1
2
4
246
645
4
135
123
3
456
536
123
124
365
3
4
43
3
Design R20:
4/9, cz
E= .64, E,
-
v = 6,
m= 2,
r =
7,
k = 2,
b= 21
n = 3,
λ₁
=
2,
A₂ = 1
5/27, H= 15/2, A = 27/2
.55, E = .58
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= = 14
Dual:
Irregular
Groups: (2,3)
Plan: 1 3
1 3
1
5
1
5
Design R17:
v = 4,
m= 2, n= : 2, 1
r = 10,
k= 2,
= 2, λ₂ = 4
b = 20
2 4
2
6
2
4
4
6
5
6
4
5
3
6
2
3
3
5
3
1
6
2
6
4
6
2
5
1
4
1
2
3
4
c₁ = 1/3, c₂ = 13/24, H= 14, A = 48
E,= .60, E₂ = .69, E = .65
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,2)
Plan: 1
2
34
2
12
2
12
24
13
24
13
34
43
12
43
24
13
24
13
43
12
12
4
1
2
43
2 3
Design R18:
C1
E,
=
= 1
v = 6,
4,
m= 3,
n = 2,
0, c₂= 1/3, H= 5, A
.50, E₂ = .60, E= .58
2
= 6
λ
k = 2,
=
: 0,
1
3 4
1 4
2 3
b= 12
2
=
1
Design R21:
=
c, 3/5, c₂
=
E, .71, E,
Solution:
V=
6,
r = 7,
k = 2,
m= 3,
n = 2,
λ
=
3,
b= 21
A2
= 1
=
2/15, H= 8, A 15
.54, E = .56
Unique; resolvable
= 14
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,2)
Plan: 1
2
3
456
5
6
4
536
123
456
124
365
124
4
456
123
645
123
3 5
135
246
183
\n--- PAGE 00000196 ---\nTABLE IX.
Regular group divisible designs - Continued
Design R22:
536
1 5
124
564
123
546
123
465
123
256
134
5
3
4
645
123
5
V =
6,
r = 8,
k = 2,
b= 24
n= 2, λ = 4,
2
= 1
c₁ = 2/3, c₂
=
m 3,
=
0, H= 9, A= 18
E,= .75, E₂ = .50, E = .54
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 16
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,2)
Plan:
1
2
123
456
3
635
2
124
564
456
1 4
123
123
456
346
123
125
456
123
256
134
k = 2,
- 0,
=
b = 24
2
= 2
Design R26:
c₁ = 5/7, c₂ =
9,
k = 2,
=
v = 6,
m= 3,
r =
b= 27
n = 2, A₁ 5,
2
=
-1/7, H= 10, A = 21
E.78, E, .47, E = .51
2
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 18
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,2)
Plan:
256
635
123
456
134
12
2
4
456
456
564
123
123
123
456
456
346
123
123
125
7/20, H= 11, A =
E= .56, E₂ = .61, E= .60
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,2)
Plan:
123
= 18
Plan:
Design R24: V= 6,
m= 2,
r = 8, k = 2,
n = 3, λ₁
b = 24
1,
2
=
221
Design R27:
v = 6,
m= 3,
r = 9,
n = 2,
k = 2,
b = 27
λ₁
=
=
1, A2
22
= 2/9, C 2
c₁ =
1/5, C2
=
30
Design R23:
v = 6,
m= 3,
r =
8,
n = 2,
X₁
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/3, H= 10, A
=
E, .50, E₂ = .60, E = .58
=
Solution: Unique; resolvable
24
Complement: Not listed, r = 16
Dual: A D(6), WHC (1956)
Groups: (3,2)
Duplicate the plan of R18.
c₁ =
10/27, H= 21/2, A = 27
E= .56, E₂ = .61, E = .59
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,3)
Plan:
=
16
346
2
125
645
132
426
135
6
294
135
635
721
456
123
256
134
564
123
4
4
b= 27
=
λη 1
Design R25: v = 6,
m= 2,
c₁ = 1/2, c₂
=
r =
9,
n = 3, λ₁
0, H= 9, ▲ = 18
E= .67, E, .50, E = .56
2
Solution: Unique; resolvable
=
Complement: Not listed, r 18
Dual:
Irregular
Groups: (2,3)
Plan:
=
k 2,
=
365
124
356
124
346
125
3,
256
564
635
134
123
124
346
6
635
134
256
4
5
125
124
456
346
564
125
123
Design R28:
v = 6,
m= 3,
r = 10,
k = 2,
b= 30
n = 2, λ₁
=
6, λ2
= 1
c₁ =
3/4, C2
=
-7/24, H= 11, A = 24
E= .80, E2.44, E.48
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 20
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,2)
(Plan continued on next page)
184
\n--- PAGE 00000197 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs – -
Continued
Plan:
7658
1 8
1 3
3758
1246
8576
6 8
1234
5487
1236
4987
6 7
5648
6
1234
1237
1235
5678∞
6378
2786
1245
1345
456
4
5
6
123
346
125
256
456
Plan:
1
1234
123
134
456
456
3 6
123
123
456
456
123
3
123
635
124
564
123
4
4 5
b= 24
A2 = 1
Design R29:
C1
v = 8,
r = 6,
k = 2,
m= 4,
n = 2,
λ₁
=
0,
= 0, c₂= 1/4, H= 7, A = 12
E= .50, E,= .57, E = .56
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 18
Dual: A D(5), Ramakrishnan (1956)
Groups:
(4,2)
Plan:
3
6
8
436∞
1257
3768
6
5 8
1245
2578
1346
4
7
8547
1236
7885
1234
6
4 5
6487
1235
Design R32:
v =
8, r = 10,
m= 2, n = 4,
k = 2,
A₁ = 2,
b = 40
λε
=
1
C1
E,
=
1/3, C2
=
1/8, H= 10, A = 24
.60, E₂ = .53, E = .56
Solution:
Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= = 30
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,4)
Plan:
6
8642
1324
576∞
2 6
4 8
1357
8429
5768
1357
1324
4286
374∞
7586
1526
1324
1357
286+
1357
4
374∞
1526
7586
1324
4 6
4 6
b= 32
2, A2
= 1
6
8
Design R30:
C₁ =
v = 8,
r = 8,
k 2,
m= 4,
n = 2,
λ₁
=
= 2/5, c₂ = 1/5, H= 9, A = 20
E= .62, E,= .56, E = .56
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed,
r
= 24
Dual: Irregular
Groups:
(4,2)
Plan:
5648
1237
6378
1245
3748
1256
8576
1234
6
5478
1263
4867
1235
2786
1345
7658
1234
Design R31:
C1
=
1/2, C2
=
v = 8, r = 9,
MF 4,
n= 2, λι
k =
=
1/8, H= 10, A = 24
E,= .67, E₂ = .53, E = .55
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 27
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (4,2)
2,
3, A2
b= 36
=
1
Design R33:
v = 8,
m= 4,
r =
10, k = 2,
b = 40
n = 2,
λι
=
4,
λ2
= 1
28
c₁ = 4/7, c₂ = 1/28, H= 11, A =
E,= .70, E,= .51, E= .53
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 30
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (4,2)
Plan:
1234
5678
1234
1 5
4 8
8576
1234
5678
1 8
1 3
2 7
4 5
6
6 8
1 6
1 5
1
7
1 2
2
3
2 6
2
6
3 7
4 7
3 4
3
5
4
8
5 8
7 8
8
5 6
5487
1236
4867
1235
6 7
185
\n--- PAGE 00000198 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs - Continued
59968
1 5
10
12347
48679
12359
36590
12478
9 10
6 10
7
10
29760
13456
k = 2,
b= 27
Plan:
1 3
Design R34:
v = 9,
r = 6,
m= 3,
n= 3,
A1
=
0,
A2
= 1
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 2/9, H= 15/2, A =
E= .50, E,
27/2
.56, E = .55
Solution:
Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 21
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Groups: (3,3)
Plan:
12346
10
2
3
4
7 10
6
65789
94580
12367
83697
6
10
1245 O
79469
2 10
12358
Design R37:
v = 10, r = 10, k = 2,
m= 5, n = 2,
A₁ 2,
=
b= 50
A₂ = 1
=
30
36700
8
10
12459
27890
13456
67899
12345
67890
12345
10
6 10
5 10
b = 45
=
A2 1
= 1/3, C2
=
1/6, H= 11, A:
E, .60, E₂ = .55, E = .55
=
2
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 40
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (5,2)
Plan:
7
1
5
8
62439TIS ∞
143572869
1
996287345
152936784
213945788
1324ba57
6
9
8
6
Design R35:
v = 9,
m= 3,
n=
r = 10,
3,
k = 2,
λι
=
2,
= 27
89957
10
1234 6
79460
12358
58069
10
10
8 10
04598
b = 48
A2 1
=
Design R38: y= 12,
k = 2,
=
0,
r = 8,
n = 4, λ₁
m= 3,
=
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/6, H= 10, A 24
E= .50, E₂ = .55, E = .53
=
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Groups: (3,4)
40
12347
45609
10
12378
12367
93078
10
12456
316254987
172396458
518243796
18273S+69
4
5
4
91562783 +
142395678
c₁ = 1/3, c₂
= 4/27, H= 21/2, A
E= .60, E₂ = .54, E= .55
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,3)
= 35
Plan:
Design R36:
=
m= 5, n = 2,
0, c₂= 1/5, H= 9, A 20
E, .50, E₂ = .56, E = .55
2
=
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 32
Dual: A D(5), Ramakrishnan (1956)
Groups: (5,2)
v = 10, r =
8,
k = 2,
Plan: 1
λ₁ 0,
=
A2
b = 40
= 1
3
4
5
7 11
10 9
282610
10 11
S74192
123688
349821
12567
1 5
1
6
2
10
3
7
4
5
8 12
10
9 11
123451
123456
890672
3 10
12
3 11
5 10
P2188
9
1 11
7
24567
12
10
7 8
23
H3920∞
1
12
2
3
55
6
4 11
7 9
8 10
169235847
213864 ST9
8
4125 ∞ 3679
174239568
7
186
\n--- PAGE 00000199 ---\nTABLE IX.
Regular group divisible designs - Continued
Design R39:
9 10
11
6
240802
13579
9 11
12
10 12
45029
123788
347812
125699
10 11
4 10
5 11
6 12
912346
789612
123456
2 11
031290
124578
201857
6
v = 12, r = 9,
m= 4,
k = 2,
b = 54
Design R41:
n=
3,
A1
=
- 0,
1, = 1
v = 15, r = 10, k = 2,
m= 3, n = 5, λ₁ = 0,
b= 75
λ₂ 1
=
=
CI 0,
E= .50,
C
2 =
2
E₂ = .55, E = .54
= 1/6, H= 21/2, A
= 27
=
0, c₂
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Groups: (4,3)
Plan:
= 45
E
2/15, H= 25/2, ▲ = 75/2
= .50, E₂ = .54, E = .52
2
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
6
12
Groups: (3,5)
Plan:
23356899
11244577
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
= €65
4
4 12
8 12
599622
115
1 8
1 15
8 15
8
3 4
3 11
4 11
7 11
6 7
7 15
6 14
8 9
11 15
7 14
4 11
10 11
3 10
2 9
5
12
10 12
14
10
2 10
11 12
3 14
9 10
8 10
13 14
2
6
5 12
3 12
2956OE
123478
12878a
123456
8729OE
5 10
123456
1 11
2 12
3 10
12
34
13 15
2
13
5
13
14 15
6 13
12 13
10
6 11
9
11
12
Design R40:
c₁ =
=
Δ
0, c₂ 1/6, H= 11, 30
E= .50, E₂ = .55, E = .54
2
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 50
Dual: A D(5), Ramakrishnan (1956)
Groups: (6,2)
Plan:
v = 12, r = 10,
m= 6,
k = 2,
b = 60
9 11
8
n = 2,
X,
=
0,
A2 1
=
9 13
13
11 13
8 13
-
1
12
5
10
1 14
5 15
12 14
10
15
2 4
4 9
2 15
4 14
4 15
9 14
57789
3356
6 10
8 10
1912273385
6 11
7
12
11
6
Design R42:
1
9
2 11
4 12
3
7
11
5
8
6 10
11
10
12
356912
124780
10
87092=
H22780
1235 & 6
546192
123789
02178a
7 10
8 12
9 11
9
11
8 10
9 12
123465
40502H
123789
9 10
11 12
6
12
11
1 10
11
10 12
123456
246002
13579
291780
11
124635
635291
124780
10 11
5 10
4
6 9
c, = 3/4, c2
y=
= 6,
m= 3,
r =
= 3,
k = 3,
b = 6
n = 2,
λ₁ 2,
=
A2 1
=
=
16/3
3/8, H= 14/3, A
E= .89, E₂ = .76, E = .78
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Truly self dual
Groups: (3,2)
Plan:
456123
234569
123456
1
6
187
\n--- PAGE 00000200 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs - Continued
Plan:
13
4 2
3 6 5
Design R43:
v = 6,
r = 6,
k= 3,
b = 12
m= 2,
n = 3,
λ₁
= 3,
A₂
= 2
c₁ = 3/5, c, = 2/5, H= 9, A = 20
E= .83, E,= .77, E = .79
2
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
2-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,3)
Plan:
2
6245
6415
4316
2153
4352
2163
3
6 2
2313
6125
4654
5
3
Solution 2: As given by Freeman (1957), no. 1,
Table III; nonunique; 2-resolvable
complementary
Complement: Truly self
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,3)
Plan:
3254
2613
6
5
1465
1916
4524
2353
42
15
36
2 5 6
4
2
13
1
42
53
3
1 5
56
41
4
1
62
74
23
91
6
45
23
56
Design R45:
v = 6,
r =
7,
k = 3,
m= 2,
n = 3,
A₁
= 4,
λε
b= 14
= 2
= 24
c, 2/3, c, = 5/18, H= 10, A:
E, .86, E, .73, E = .78
=
Solution 1: As given by Clatworthy (1956);
nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,3)
Plan: 1 3 5
1
3
5
1
3
5
2
4
1
2 6
1
4
6
2
3
6
2 4 5
2
3
4
4
5
6
3
4
6
2
5
6
12
3
2
4
56
34
Solution 2:
As given by Freeman (1957);
nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,3)
5432
3165
1 3
6
24
Design R44: v = 6,
=
3/4, C2 =
m= 3,
r = 6,
k= 3,
b= 12
n = 2,
A₁ = 4,
λ₂
= 2
3/8, H= 28/3, A = 64/3
E, .89, E,= .76, E = .78
Solution 1:
Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (3,2)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of R42.
Solution 2: As given by Sprott (1955);
nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Not a D(x), x =
1, 2, 3
Plan:
1122
3665
2544
1123
5466
56
3254
34
4
1123
12
2
Design R46:
C₁ =
3/8, Ca
=
3434
y=
= 6,
m= 3,
r =
=7,
n = 2,
A₁
=
k= 3, b = 14
2, A2
=
3
25/48, H= 34/3, A = 32
E,= .76, E₂ = .81, E= .80
Solution 1:
As given by Clatworthy (1956);
nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,2)
5005
6
6
Groups: (3,2)
(Plan continued on next page)
188
\n--- PAGE 00000201 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs - Continued
Plan:
Design R48:
v = 6,
r = 8,
k = 3,
b=
m= 3,
n = 2,
λ₁
=
4, λ2
=
93
16
3/5, c2 =
7/15, H= 38/3, A = 40
E, .83, E₂ = .79, E = .80
2
1
12
2
5
36
34
345612
234561
123456
561234
234567
12345
6
Solution 2: As given by Freeman (1957);
nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,2)
Plan:
1
3656
2544
1123
3665
245+
1123
3
56
6
34
3
1
2
12
1123
4665
2534
Design R47:
v = 6,
r = 8,
m= 2,
n = 3,
λ₁
k = 3,
= 5,
b = 16
2
= 2
=
-
c, 5/7, c₂ 1/7, H= 11, A 28
E, .87, E,= .70, E = .76
Solution 1: As given by Clatworthy (1956);
nonunique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,3)
Plan:
Solution 1: As given by Clatworthy (1956);
nonunique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups:
Plan:
(3,2)
5656
3244
1123
5466
3235
1124
5566
3344
1122
3
4
5646
3435
1122
Solution 2:
As given by Freeman (1957), no. 3,
Table III; nonunique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
4 2
5 6
4 5
43
56
6
46
35
2
12
4 6
63
45
12
2 5 3
2 5
6
56
65
24
34
2 4 5
13
12
13
3664
2545
1123
12
3
2
Solution 2:
As given by Freeman (1957), using
design R42 twice; nonunique;
nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,2)
Plan: 1 2
1
2
1
2 3
2 3 5
2
3 5
1
5
6
3 4 6
3 4 6
4
2 6
4 5
4
5
1
4
3
5
5
6
2
5
6
2
6
1
3
6
1
3
Design R49:
v = 6,
r = 9,
k = 3,
b =
18
m= 2,
n=
3, λ = 6,
2
= 2
3/4, c₂ = 0, H= 12, A = 32
E= .89, E₂ = .67, E = .74
Solution:
3-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,3)
Dual: Irregular
c₁ =
Groups: (2,3)
Plan: 1 3 5
1
5
6
1
2
4
1 4 6
1 2 3
1 3 5
2 4 5
2
4 6
2 5 6
2
3 6
3 4 5
3 4
6
36
34
2
12
5
12
1
2
56
34
(Plan continued on next page)
189
\n--- PAGE 00000202 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs-Continued
Plan:
456665
233454
2454
112312
1123
2
Plan:
1
56
56
56
56
34
34
34
34
1
12
12
12
12
3665
5
2
Design R50:
c, = 3/4,
E, .89,
=
Solution:
v= 6,
m= 3,
r= 9,
n = 2,
k = 3,
λ. = 6,
λε
=
b= 18
3
c₂
=
3/8, H= 14, A
= 48
E,= .76, E = .78
3-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (3,2)
54
26
2
6
1
2 3
5 3
13
36
25
14
12
46
42
63
1
5
52
5
3
4
5 6 2
6
62
2
34
15
16
35
1
14
4
31
54
4
3
32
46
52
26
57
1
6 3
34
61
k= 3,
n = 3, λ₁ = 7, λ₂
Design R53:
v = 6,
m= 2,
r = 10,
c₁ = 7/9, c
E, .90, E,
=
Solution:
-4/27, H= 13, A = 36
.64, E= .72
5-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,3)
Plan: 1
1
1
1
3456665656
2234534544
————-22233
34
5
36
3
5
56
56
5
6
56
56
34
34
34
34
12
12
12
2
12
2
1
12
2
b=20
=
22
Plan:
1
2 4
1 2
4
2
4
2
3
5
2
3
3
5
3
4
6
3
6
6
4
1
4
1
5
1
2
5
6
2
5
5
2
6
1
3
3
3
Design R51: v = 6,
r = 9,
m 3,
n = 2,
k = 3,
λ. = 2,
b= 18
2
= 4
C=
3/10, C2
=
21/40, H= 44/3, A = 160/3
E,= .74, E₂= .81, E = .79
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,2)
Plan: 1
3665
2523
1144
3665
2523
3
4
4 3
1144
3456665656
223453 4544
1
11122233
4
Design R54:
v = 8,
m= 4,
r = 3,
k = 3,
b= 8
n = 2, λ₁
=
0, A2
= 1
16/3
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 3/8, H= 14/3, A =
E,= .67, E,= .76, E= .75
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design R134
Dual: Truly self dual
Groups: (4,2)
Plan:
45678123
23456781
4
12345678
r =
m= 2,
= 9,
n = 3,
k = 3,
b= 18
8
λι
= 3, A2 = 4
Design R52: v = 6,
c₁ = 3/7, c₂
=
=
15/28, H= 15, A = 56
E, .78, E, .81, E = .80
2
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Not a D(x), x =
1, 2, 3
Groups: (2,3)
190
\n--- PAGE 00000203 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs - Continued
8246135
71356824
1
6
5
8
7
7
13574682
2
6884L3ST
57138246
13574682
46821357
35718246
Design R55:
v = 8,
r = 6,
m= 4,
n = 2,
C₁ =
=
k= 3,
λ =
0, c₂ 3/8, H= 28/3, A =
= .67, E₂= .76, E = .75
EF
Solution:
3-resolvable
Complement: Design R136
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (4,2)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of R54.
b= 16
0,
A2
= 2
64/3
Plan:
1357692
8
4
Solution 2:
Design R56: v = 8,
r= 9,
k= 3,
b= 24
m² 4,
n = 2,
A₁
=
6, λε
=
223
c, 3/4, c₂ = 3/16, H= 40/3, A =
128/3
=
E, .89, E,
Solution:
.71, E = .73
3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 15
Dual: Not a D(x), x =
Groups: (4,2)
Plan:
1
1, 2, 3
23
4
= 15
As given by John (1966); nonunique;
3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups: (2,4)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo
8, the three
initial blocks:
1 2
3
1 2 5
1 3
6
Each initial block gives rise to three
replications and each position within
blocks to three replications.
41236785
5678234
b= 24
=
2323
Design R59:
v = 9,
r = 5,
m= 3,
n = 3,
k = 3,
A₁ 2,
b = 15
=
A2
=
1
= 12
c₁ = 1/2, c₂ = 2/9, H= 7, A
E= .80, E,
Solution:
.72, E = .74
Resolvable
Complement: Design R165
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,3)
Plan:
369
258
147
9
876
564
123
123
789
9
168
456
645
5
123
123
456
789
12345678
3
4
5
6
5
7
341278S6
56783412
12345678
23418567
56784123
56
5
6
7
8
3
Design R57:
-
v = 8,
r =
9,
k = 3,
m= 4,
n= 2, A,
=
0,
A2
= 48
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 3/8, H= 14, A=
E= .67, E,= .76, E = .75
Solution:
3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 15
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (4,2)
Plan: Repeat the plan of R54 three times.
Design R60:
v = 9,
r = 6,
m 3,
k= 3,
n = 3,
λ,
= 3, Ag
-
b= 18
1
Design R58: v = 8,
r = 9,
k = 3,
b= 24
m= 2,
n = 4,
λι
=
2, A2
= 3
c₁ =
3/5, c₂ =
=
c, 3/10, c₂ = 33/80, H= 44/3, ▲ = 160/3
E,= .74, E,= .77, E = .76
2
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 15
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups: (2,4)
1/15, H= 8, A 15
E,.83, E,= .68, E= .71
Solution:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,3)
Plan:
7
4 1
1 7
4
1
7
8
5
2
2
8
5
5
2
8
3
9
6
3
6
9
6
9
3
1
2
3
1
8
9
5
1
4
6
5
9
4
2
8
3
4
7
9
5
3
7
2
6
191
\n--- PAGE 00000204 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs – -
Continued
Design R61:
v = 9,
r =
7,
MF 3,
n = 3,
=
k= 3,
λι
18
= 4,
λ2 =
b= 21
= 1
Plan:
1
123
2
6
123
123
7785∞∞∞
9
7
7
9
9
9
3 6
4452344~~656
1121-2356233
124
=
c₁ = 2/3, c₂ -1/9, H= 9, A =
E= .86, E₂ = .64, E = .69
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Solution:
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,3)
= 14
Plan: To construct, use
Set 3.1
once
Set 3.2
4 times
Set 3.3
once
Set 3.4
once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design R62:
v = 9,
r = 7,
k = 3,
b = 21
m= 3,
n = 3,
A₁
=
1,
2
= 2
=
c, 1/5, c₂ = 16/45, H= 11, A = 30
E,= .71, E₂= .76, E = .75
Solution:
2
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,3)
Plan: To construct, use
= 14
Set 3.1
twice
Set 3.2
once
Set 3.3
twice
Set 3.4
twice
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
789
456
789
789
976
456
456
835
Solution 2:
Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,3)
Plan: To construct, use
= 16
Set 3.1
once
Set 3.2
5 times
Set 3.3
once
Set 3.4
once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design R64:
v=
9,
m= 3,
r =
9,
k = 3,
b= 27
n = 3,
λ₁
=
= 6,
A2
= 1
C₁ =
3/4, C2
E,
2
=
-1/2, H= 11, A = 24
.89, E₂ = .57, E= .63
Solution 1: As given by Liu and Chang (1964);
nonunique; nonresolvable
= 18
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,3)
To the plan of R63, Solution 1 annex a
fourth replication which is
Design R63:
v = 9,
m= 3,
r = 8,
n = 3,
k = 3,
λ₁ 5,
b= 24
=
2
=
214
Plan:
C 2
=
-19/63, H= 10, A = 21
= 5/7,
C1
E,= .87, E,= .61, E = .66
Solution 1:
Complement: Not listed, r
Nonunique; 4-resolvable
= 16
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,3)
1 4 7
Solution 2:
2 5 8
6
3
9
Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,3)
Plan:
To construct, use
Set 3.1 once
Set 3.2 6 times
= 18
Set 3.3
once
Set 3.4
once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
192
\n--- PAGE 00000205 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs – -
Continued
Design R65:
v = 9,
r = 9,
k = 3,
m= 3,
n = 3,
λι
=
3,
b = 27
A₂ = 2
c₁ = 3/7,
=
2/7, H= 13, A
=
42
C 2
E= .78, E,= .74, E = .75
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 18
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,3)
Plan: To construct, use
Set 3.1
twice
Set 3.2
3 times
Set 3.3 twice
Set 3.4
twice
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Solution 2: As given by Freeman (1957);
nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 18
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups: (3,3)
Plan:
543
792
6
2
198
873
465
162
279
6
894
135
281
3
436
759
149
8
832
765
536
192
478
2
2
6
799
858
423
526
1
9
1
797
483
148
735
9
266
Design R66:
v = 9,
m= 3,
r = 10, k = 3,
n = 3, A₁ = 7, λ2
b = 30
1
c₁ =
719,
C 2
=
-19/27, H= 12, A
= 27
E,
.90, E₂ = .54, E = .60
Solution 1: As given by Liu and Chang (1964);
nonunique; 5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
=
= 20
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,3)
Plan:
976
789
789
835
456
456
124
123
123
3
789
789
789
456
123
456
123
456
123
77856∞∞8666
9
9
9
9
6 8
445234477656
11211235623 3
Solution 2: As given by Clatworthy (1967);
nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 20
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,3)
Plan: To construct, use
Set 3.1 once
Set 3.2
7 times
Set 3.3
once
Set 3.4
once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Solution 3: As given by John (1966); nonunique;
3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 18
Dual:
Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups: (3,3)
Plan:
Cyclically develop, modulo
initial blocks:
9, the three
1 2 4
1 2 5
1 3 6
Each initial block gives rise to three
replications and each position within
blocks to three replications.
m= 3,
Design R67:
v = 9,
n=
r = 10,
· 3, λι
k = 3,
=
4,
= 48
c₁ = 1/2, c₂ = 2/9, H= 14, A
E, .80, E,= .72, E= .74
Solution 1: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 20
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,3)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of R59.
32
b= 30
λ2
=
Solution 2: As given by John (1966); nonunique;
nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,3)
= 20
(Plan continued on next page)
193
\n--- PAGE 00000206 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs - Continued
Plan:
1
2
4
1
2
5
1
3
6
Solution:
2
3
5
2
3
6
2
4
7
3
4
6
3
4
7
3
5
8
4
5
7
4
5
8
6
9
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Not a D( x), x = 1, 2
Groups: (6,2)
= 15
5
6
8
5
6
9
5
7
1
6
7
9
6
7
1
6
8
2
Plan: 1 3 4
2
6
7
8
1
7
8
2
7
9
3
2 9 7
3
6 11
8
9
2
8
9
3
8
1
4
3
5 12
9 11
8
9
1
3
9
1
4
9
2
5
9
6 10
5
8 4
6
8
1
6
4
7
4
7
11
4
2
11
7 12
2
5
8
8
7
3
8
12
10
3
6
9
4
12
9
12 1 2
7 10 5
10
2
3
10
1
11
1
9
5
Design R68:
v = 9,
m= 3,
r = 10,
k = 3,
b= 30
n = 3,
λ₁
=
= 1,
A2
=
333
Design R71:
v = 12,
r =
6,
k = 3,
b= 24
m= 6,
λ
n = 2,
=
2, A2
=
1
27
c, 1/7, c2=
-
67/189, H= 16, A
=
63
2
C₁ =
3/7, C2
=
E= .70, E₂ = .76, E = .74
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 20
Solution:
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,3)
Plan: To construct, use
Set 3.1 3 times
Set 3.2
once
Set 3.3 3 times
Set 3.4 3 times
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
3/14, H= 26/3, ▲ = 56/3
E= .78, E₂ = .72, E = .72
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 18
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (6,2)
Plan:
21
11
789123SOTE9*
137899-237∞0
5
6
4
11
10
2237BL645459
12
11
8
1
HRISOS+260 +2
5
5 11
4
10
4
12378LOSEONG
12
10
10
12
11
9
10 1
5 11
3
6
7
8
4
12
9
6
b= 20
1
Design R72:
Design R69:
v = 10, r = 6,
n = 2,
m= 5,
k = 3,
λ₁
=
4,
2
=
=
=
c₁ = 3/4, c₂
E.89, E2=
Solution:
3/40, H= 26/3, A
= .68, E = .70
3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 14
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups:
Plan:
(5,2)
160/9
8
3451267∞90
6789012345
12345∞9g67
10
2345167890
6789012345
1234578906
= 0, A2
b= 20
=
27
1
Design R70:
V=
m= 6,
12, r = 5,
n = 2,
k = 3,
λ₁
=
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/4, H= 22/3, ▲
E, .67, E₂ = .73, E = .72
2
=
40/3
V=
12,
r = 7,
k = 3,
b = 28
m= 3,
n = 4,
λι
=
- 2,
2 = 1
= 64/3
c, 3/8, c₂
=
5/32, H= 28/3, A
E= .76, E₂ = .70, E = .72
Solution:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
= 21
Groups: (3,4)
Plan:
1 4 7
1
4 10
1
5 9
2 5 8
2
6
2
8 11
3
6 9
3
9 12
3
6 12
10
11 12
5
8 11
4
7 10
1
6
1
3 11
1
2 12
2 3 10
2 4 9
3
5 7
7
9 11
7
8 12
4 6 11
4
5 12
5
6 10
8
9 10
10
7459
1326
12
812
11
194
\n--- PAGE 00000207 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs – -
Continued
1/12, H= 10, ▲ = 24
E= .86, E₂ = .69, E = .70
Nonresolvable
Solution:
Dual: Irregular
Complement: Not listed, r = 21
Design R73:
v = 12,
r =
7,
k = 3,
m= 6,
n = 2,
λι
= 4,
=
b= 28
λ₂ 1
c₁ =
2/3, C2
Plan:
6
7
8 9 11
Groups: (6,2)
9 10 12
10 11
Plan: 1
1
1
1
1
1
1
77772 34345
222
5
6
11
12
8
9
4 10
8
222533333
6 12
7 8
8 9
8
11
4
9
5 11
554✿✿✿
5
9 11
11 12
12345oragEE
456789002
8 10
234567RGERL
12345
12 1 3
8 9
9 10
1
10
2
11
23456721
789612
10
11
7 8 1
12
23456
6
12345orBagIE
11
34567BPPARI2
7 9
8 10
9 11
10 12
1
8 11
6
7
8
9
10
PTBROW212345
5 10 12
5
6
4 7
10
8
10
4 11
12
6
12
6
8
12
7 9
6
9 12
CI
=
4
10
9
10
6
10 11
5
11
Design R74:
v = 12,
r =
8,
k = 3,
b= 32
m= 2,
n = 6,
λ₁ =
2,
λε
= 1
C₁ =
1/3, c₂ = 1/9, H= 10, A = 24
E, .75, E₂ = .69, E = .72
Solution:
4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 24
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,6)
Plan:
1 3
11
11
3956840
12396
11
7 10
3 6 11
9 11
18472129
9561828I
11
10
4720125-4720235
11
8
135792+0∞
9 11
5
4
6
8 10
10
12
3124
79113 HO246
8
6 10
12
357911408022
5 7 11
3 7
8
10 11
5 6
9 12
Design R76:
= 30
1/2, C2
-1/8, H= 12, A = 32
E, .80, E₂ = .64, E= .68
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,4)
Plan:
4477558∞99
1114 22 253336
4 10
7
10
7 10
11
6 9
CH-222
6 12
8
1114 22 253336
4477∞∞6699
7
10
10
10
5
5 11
8 11
8 11
9
6 12
8
12
12
69 12
9 12
8
y=
12,
r =
m= 3, n = 4,
10, k = 3,
A,
4,
=
2
b = 40
= 1
10
12
3756
6
1 2 3
2804
1291
1389
2702
10
1564
6479
11
10
5312
1692
9235
8612
1704
4 12
Design R77:
v = 12, r = 10,
n = 2,
m= 6,
k = 3,
b = 40
A₁
=
0, A2 2
160/3
=
b = 36
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/4, H= 44/3, A
E,= .67, E₂ = .73, E = .72
Solution:
5-resolvable
=
Complement: Not listed, r = 30
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Groups:
(6,2)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of R70.
Design R75:
v = 12, r = 9,
MF 4, n = 3,
k = 3,
λ₁ = 0,
λ₂
= 2
==
48
c₁ = 0, c₂= 1/4, H= 14, ▲ =
E, .67, E₂ = .73, E = .72
=
Solution:
3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 27
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups: (4,3)
195
\n--- PAGE 00000208 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs – -
Continued
Design R78:
v = 12, r = 10,
m= 4,
n=
3,
λι
k = 3,
= 1,
b = 40
λ2
= 2
c₁ = 1/7, c₂ = 11/42, H= 15, A = 56
2
E,= .70, E₂ = .73, E= .72
Complement: Not listed, r = 30
Dual: Not a D(x), x =
Groups: (4,3)
Plan:
1, 2, 3
34567BPKARI2
12345672
789OW2123456
234567∞ON1
8 10
8 9 11
9
10 12
10 11 1
11 12
8
8 9
10
10 11
11
10
11
12 1 6
8 10
11
10 12
7 10
8 11
678901212345
9 12
1
12345672
456789OIDI23
234567BQQAN.
1234567agUE
1
9
567
1234
4
6 10
11
8 12
Plan:
1
4
250
3
3 8 9
8
10 11 14
6 10 12
1 5 11
13
9 11
12 13
1 4 12
4
2
8 10
78
10
6 8 14
3
7 11
1
9 10
5
9 14
2 12 14
2
6 11
3
35712
4 14
7
5 8
6
13
5 10 13
1
13 14
9 12
2
5 7
6 7
8
11
12
2
4 13
4
6
9
Design R80:
v = 14, r = 9,
k= 3,
m= 7, n=
2,
A₁ = 6,
λε 1
b= 42
=
C₁ =
112/3
3/4, c₂ = :-3/56, H= 38/3, A =
E= .89, E₂ = .65, E = .67
Solution:
2
3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 33
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups: (7,2)
Plan:
Cyclically develop the six initial blocks
1 8 2
Design R79:
v = 14,
m= 7,
r = 6,
n = 2,
k = 3,
A₁ = 0,
b= 28
λ2 1
9
1 8
=
1
8
3
10
1
8
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 3/14, H= 26/3, A
E= .67, E,= .72, E = .71
=
56/3
1
8 4
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 22
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Groups: (7,2)
11 1 8
using cycles of length 7 and cycling
within two subsets of treatments 1-7 and
8-14. Three replications are generated
by pairs of initial blocks formed in
order. Within each of these subsets of
blocks, each position within blocks
contains a replication.
Plan:
Design R81:
v = 15, r = 6, k
m= 5, n = 3, λ₁ 0,
=
ཆ་
=
b= 30
λε
= 1
= 0, c₂ = 1/5, H= 9, A = 20
E,= .67, E₂ = .71, E= .71
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 24
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Groups: (5,3)
10
11
12
13
23456TARRH2R4
7
1
8
9
712345667I2345
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
3
4
5
11
6
7
4567123AOH2R4
11
89O1234
10
5671234
9 10
12
10 11 13
12
14
13
8
14
9
1
8 10
14
2
8
9 11
Plan:
Solution 2:
Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Groups: (7,2)
= 22
2345
1
10
13
14
345
15 11
67899
51234
11
12
8 9 11
3
9
10 12
4
10
6 13
5
6 7 14
1
7 8
15
234SH
12 15
1
13 11
2
14
15
23
12 3
27890
13 4
10
11 14 5
9
12345672345
10
4B12345-2306789
6
196
(Plan continued on next page)
\n--- PAGE 00000209 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs -
– Continued
Solution 2: As given by John (1966); nonunique;
3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Groups: (5,3)
= 24
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 15, the two
Plan:
12345
6 11
7 12
8 13
9 14
5 10 15
16123
7 15
6 13 4
2 10
8
9 5
14
initial blocks:
1 4 15
2 8 15
Each initial block gives rise to three
replications and each position within
blocks to two replications.
Note: Nonuniqueness was established by Morris
Newman of the National Bureau of Standards
who used a computer code which looks at
the Smith normal form of the incidence
matrix of the design (altered to provide
a square matrix).
Design R82:
v = 15, r = = 8,
m= 5,
n = 3,
λ₁
=
k= 3,
2, A2
b = 40
= 1
C1
=
=
1/3, C2
7/45, H= 11, A = 30
E= .75, E,= .70, E = .71
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 32
16127
12345
6 11
7
12
8 13
9 14
5 10 15
32734
16128
2 14
3 15
4 10
1 14 10
5
9
11
38505
27494
16
23
12 9 10
13 14 15
12 4
29383
16127
9 15
3 14
7 13 10
5
16127
O5594
8 9
3 10
6 12
12 13
8 15
4 15
2 13
3
7 14 5
Note: There exist many distinct solutions.
The plan may be constructed by taking any
solution for the BIB design (15,35,7,3,1)
which possesses five blocks forming a
replication, annexing this replication to
the BIB design, and finally relabeling
the treatments in standard form so that
the blocks of the replication constitute
the groups.
The BIB design is known to
possess 80 distinct solutions, 7 of
which are resolvable. See Marshall Hall,
Jr. and J. D. Swift (1955) and Cole (1922).
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (5,3)
Plan:
123456D
410
5
6
1
7
2
8
3 9
2067
2345
12345
9
3 10
1
8
7 14
7 10 11
7 8 15
8 6 12
8 9 11
9
7 13
9 10 12
10
8 14
10
6 13
6 9 15
12 15 1
14 13 1
13 11 2
14 12 3
15 13 4
11 14 5
15 14 2
11 15
12 11 4
23
3
13
12
5
07829
12345
5 10 15
6 11
7 12
13
123
2
8 13
14
4
9
5 10 15
879
6 11
12345
Solution 2:
Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
= 32
Groups: (5,3)
Design R83:
y =
m= 3,
15, r = 9,
n = 5,
k = 3, b= 45
λ₁
= 2, λε 1
c₁ =
= 100/3
3/10, C2
E= .74, E,= .69, E= .71
= 3/25, H= 35/3, A
2
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 36
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,5)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 15, the three
initial blocks:
1
7 13
1 4 5
1 3 8
Each initial block gives rise to three
replications and each position within
blocks to three replications.
Solution 2: As given by John (1966); 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 36
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,5)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 15, the three
initial blocks:
1 2 5
1 3 8
1 4 10
Each initial block gives rise to three
replications and each position within
blocks to three replications.
197
\n--- PAGE 00000210 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs -
– Continued
Design R84:
v = 15,
r = 9,
-
m= 5,
n = 3,
k 3,
λ₁ = 3, A2
b= 45
= 1
C₁ =
E,
3/7, c₂ = 3/35, H= 12, A = 35
.78, E₂ = .69, E= .70
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (5,3)
Plan: 2
23451
17
5123
6
13
14
14 15
LEI23 +
= € 36
1234567E2RLE
12345
611
7 12
8 13
9 14
5 10 15
Design R86:
v = 16,
r = 6,
m= 4,
n = 4,
k = 3,
λ₁ 0,
=
A2 1
b= 32
=
=
CI 0, c₂
3/16, H= 28/3, A = 64/3
E= .67, E,= .71, E = .70
Solution:
2
3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 26
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Groups: (4,4)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 16, the two
initial blocks:
1 2 11
3 6
Each initial block gives rise to three
replications and each position within
blocks to two replications.
3
4
8
15 11
5
9
11
12
4 10
12
13
8 9 11
4
9 10 12
4
611
10 6 13
5
1
8
7 12 2
6 7 14
1 2
9
8 13
7 8 15
2
3 10
9 14 4
12 15 1
7
10 11
10 15 5
12345
Design R87:
v = 16,
m= 4,
r = 9,
n = 4,
λ₁
=
k = 3,
2, A2
b = 48
= 1
=
CI 3/10, C2
=
13 11 2
14 12
3
15 13
11 14 5
8966
6 12
7 13
11
10
8 14
Solution:
3-resolvable
9 15
Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 36
Solution 2:
Dual: Irregular
67899
12345
12345
5 10
21/160, H= 12, A = 320/9
E= .74, E₂ = .70, E = .71
Complement: Not listed, r = 39
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (4,4)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 16, the three
initial blocks:
1 5 13
1
2 11
Groups: (5,3)
Plan:
To the 8 replications of design R82,
Solution 1, add a ninth whose five blocks
are the groups of the (5,3) association
scheme.
Design R85:
v =
15, r = 10, k = 3,
m= 5,
n = 3, λ₁ 4,
=
b= 50
λ2 = 1
1/2, C2
=
0, H= 13, A =
= 40
E= .80, E₂ = .67, E = .68
2
Solution: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 40
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (5,3)
Plan: To the 8 replications of design R82,
Solution 1, add two new replications
whose ten blocks consist of the groups of
the (5,3) association scheme repeated
twice.
Note: By use of the 7 distinct resolvable
solutions available for the BIB design
(15,35,7,3,1) and recorded by Cole (1922)
one can choose any complete replication
and annex it x times to the BIB design to
obtain a solution for the regular group
divisible design with parameters
v = 15, b= 35+ 5x, 5, λ,
r = 7 + x, k 3, n = 3, λ₂
In this way one can construct many
distinct resolvable solutions for the
regular group divisible design above.
-
-
1 + x
1.
1 3 6
Each initial block gives rise to three
replications and each position within
blocks to three replications.
Design R88:
k= 3,
=
b= 48
v = 18, r = 8,
m= 9, n = 2, λ₁ 0, A2 = 1
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/6, H= 34/3, ▲ =
E= .67, E₂ = .71, E= .70
Complement: Not listed r = 40
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Groups: (9,2)
Plan: 1 7 5
32
416
2 16 10
3 9 13
2 8
3 18
3
4
4 15 8
4 17 11
11 12 6
9 6
11 15
5
7
16
7 10 9
11
5 18
6 14
6
10 17
16 1 9
79
7
16 13 15
9 8 5
7 13 12
16
8 14
15
15 17 1
5 12 2
10 14 3
8
18
1 11
2 6
9 2 15
3 5
5 4 10
10 11 13
13 6 8
8 7 18
23
15 18 10
5 17 13
10 12 8
13 14 18
18 1
17
3 7
12
24
4 16
14 11 9
8721
18 16 17
17 2 14
14
9 12
1
15 14
2
1 13 2
3 16 11
241341
24676
198
\n--- PAGE 00000211 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs - Continued
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 21, the three
initial blocks:
Design R89:
v = 18,
r =
9,
k = 3,
b:
=
54
m= 9,
n = 2,
A₂
=
2,
λα
=
1
Ci
=
3/10, c₂ = 3/20, H= 38/3, A = 40
E= .74, E,= .70, E = .70
Complement: Not listed, r
= 45
Dual: Not a D(x), x =
1, 2
Groups: (9,2)
1 2 11
1 3 7
1 4 9
Each initial block gives rise to three
replications and each position within
blocks to three replications.
Plan: Cyclically develop the six initial blocks
1 13 11
14 1 10
1
15
18
16
17 1
1 2
5
12
1 3
using cycles of length 9 and cycling
within the two subsets of treatments 1-9,
and 10-18. Each position within blocks
contains three replications.
Design R90:
v = 20, r =
m= 10, n= 2,
9,
k = 3,
b= 60
A₁
=
0,
λε
=
1
Design R92:
y= 24,
MF 4,
r =
n = 6,
9,
k = 3,
λ₁ 0,
b = 72
=
1, = 1
48
c₁ = 0, c₂= 1/8, H= 14, ▲ =
E, .67, E₂ = .70, E = .69
Solution:
3-resolvable
=
Complement: Not listed, r 63
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Groups: (4,6)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 24, the three
initial blocks:
1 2 12
1
3 8
= 0, c₂= 3/20, H= 38/3, A = 40
E= .67, E,= .70, E = .70
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
= 51
Groups:
(10,2)
Plan:
1
3
4
11
6
2
3
5
6
12
14
13451224 KE
6123456-24456235
7
15 11
14
7
16
9
5
10
13
20
13789
19
18
18
17
10
1
2
3
7
19
10
16
456937
9024
87825
14
19 13
1 4 10
Each initial block gives rise to three
replications and each position within
blocks to three replications.
Design R93:
Ci
=
V= 24, r = 10, k = 3,
m= 6, n = 4, λ, 0,
=
0, c₂= 1/8, H= 44/3, A =
E,= .67, E₂= .70, E = .69
Complement: Not listed, r 70
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Groups: (6,4)
=
160/3
b= 80
A2 1
=
11 17
Plan:
12
18 5 20
11 13 8
16
17
19 6
13
15 9
11
8 12
15
7
10
15
4 20 11
7
20
12
7
14 13
17
12 19
14
12
16 15 8
14
16
18
19
14
9 7 11
20
19
13
13
12 10
19 18 2
15
15 14 20
18
17
3
17
7 16 19
17
7
8
12
11 18
8
249
16 12 9
10 18
11
13 16
20
14
10
20
19
23
878
1
9 10
10
6 18 15
45665
8963∞
16
12783400-27834
2 21
3
4 23
1
3 5
7 22
4
9 24
2
4 6
8 3
9 10 5
7 9 11
8 13
10 15 6
8 10 12
13 14 9
15 16 11
13 15 17
14 19 10
16 21 12
14 16 18
20 15
1 16
21 22 17
22 3 18
19 21 23
20 22 24
1 14 22
3 16 24
5 6 19
2 19 3
4 21 5
7
20
9 22 6
1 9
10
3 11
6 11 20
11 12 1
12 17 2
2
10
15
4 12
17 18 7
7 15
16 9 17
18 23 8
19
8 16
21 10 18
23 24 13
20 13 21
22 15 23
24 5 14
1 4 17
3 6 13
5 18 20
Design R91:
v = 21, r = 9,
MF 7,
n=
k = 3,
3, λ₁ = 0,
b= 63
λ₂ = 1
2
9 18
4 11 14
6 23 1
7 10 23
9
12 19
8 15 24
10 17 20
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/7, H= 13, A
E= .67, E₂ = .70, E = .70
Solution:
=
Complement: Not listed, r 54
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Groups: (7,3)
=
42
13 16
5
15 18
14 21
6
16 23
19 22 11
21 24
3-resolvable
20 3 12
22
5
5
2 15
12
13 22
6
7 16
17 14
11
8 21
18
19 4
92-27823+
11 24 2
12 5 7
17 6
8
22424
18
23
11 13
12 14
24 17
23 20 9
19
1 10
199
\n--- PAGE 00000212 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs - Continued
Design R97:
v = 8,
r = 5,
k = 4,
b= 10
m= 4,
n = 2,
A₁ 3,
=
A₂ = 2
c₁ = 2/3,
C 2
=
11/24, H= 17/2, A = 18
Design R94:
v = 6,
r = 4,
m= 2,
n = 3,
λ
k = 4,
= 3,
b= 6
A2 2
=
C₁ =
4/5, C2
=
8/15, H= 27/4, A = 45/4
E= .94, E,= .87, E = .89
2
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Truly self dual
Groups: (2,3)
Plan:
612345
456123
234569
123456
6
E= .90, E₂ = .85, E = .85
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (4,2)
Plan:
1
2665
1512
7788
3344
4848
3773
5566
1122
2
6
24
57
13
68
Design R95:
v = 6,
m= 2,
r = 8,
n= 3,
k = 4,
b= 12
λι
=
- 6,
2
= 4
Design R98:
v = 8,
m= 2,
r = 8,
n = 4,
k = 4,
λ₁ = 4,
λ₂
b = 16
= 3
c₁ = 4/5,
c₂ = 8/15, H= 27/2, A = 45
E, .94, E₂ = .87, E = .89
Solution: Unique; 4-resolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (2,3)
Plan:
c₁ = 4/7, c₂ = 3/7,
H= 13, A = 42
=
E, .87, E₂ = .84,
E = .85
5
135246
624513
46235-
1
246735
135246
624513
462351
246135
423
6
592
615
341
431
263
612
554
561
453
4
5
6 2 3
4
342
212
652
417
345
236
Design R96:
c, = 4/7, C2
=
V=
6,
m= 3,
r = = 8,
n= 2, λι
k=
4,
b
=
4, 2
24/35, H= 29/2, A = 105/2
E, .87, E₂ = .91, E= .90
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Design R18
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Groups: (3,2)
Plan:
= 12
Solution 1: As given by Freeman (1957);
nonunique; resolvable
(1967)
Complement: Truly self complementary, Preece
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,4)
Plan:
48
37
24
1 2
4
4
75
8
86
78
78
78
65
5
36
56
43
34
13
12
12
6
8
87
88
6
8
2
4
34
12
87
7
2 4
65
57
56
26
34
24
43
15
12
13
12
2
Solution 2: As given by Ikeda (1967);
nonunique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups: (2,4)
Plan:
8462
3157
123 +
4
5768
5678
1324
715 3
8462
7513
4826
2
3
3
1234
5678
5678
1234
3157
4886
8
S
2
C
D
(Plan continued on next page)
200
\n--- PAGE 00000213 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs - Continued
Solution 3: As given by John (1966); nonunique;
4-resolvable
Design R99:
v = 8,
r = 8,
k = 4,
b= 16
m= 4,
n = 2,
λ₁ = 6,
λ₂
13
=
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups: (2,4)
Plan:
c, 4/5, c₂
=
2/5, H= 27/2, A = 45
=
67812345
45678123
23456781
12345678
56781234
345678I2
23456781
12345678
1
=
E= .94, E,
Solution:
2-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (4,2)
Plan:
.83, E= .85
4762
351∞
8
6
8
88
13
3
1745
24
57
3826
5173
5
4
154∞
8
6
8
57
24
2894
7362
13
74
16
38
5
32
4
7
8
8
4
52
83
16
2
8897
8
6
88
6
Note:
8
None of the treatments of John's solution
have the combinatorial characteristics of
the treatment labeled 1 in Ikeda's
solution.
Solution 4:
Nonunique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Not a D(x), x
Groups: (2,4)
Plan:
=
1, 2, 3
7565
65
3434
7
78
24
78
56
34
1122
4788
3667
2455
1321
1 5
1
3
13
5788
3676
2544
1321
12
4 6 8
7
78
8
87
68
78
8
78
m= 2,
Design R100: v= 8,
c₁ = 5/8,
E,
c₂
=
r =
€9,
k = 4,
λ₁ 5,
=
λε
n = 4,
11/32, H= 14, ▲ = 48
.89, E₂ = .82, E = .85
2
Solution 1: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,4)
Plan:
b= 18
=
3
To the 8 replications for design R98,
Solution 1, annex a ninth replication
consisting of the two groups as blocks.
Solution 2:
Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,4)
Plan: To the plan for Solution 4 of design R98
annex a replication whose blocks consist
of the two groups.
Solution 3:
Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,4)
Plan:
To the plan for Solution 5 of design R98
annex a replication whose blocks consist
of the two groups.
(Plan continued on next page)
Solution 5: Nonunique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,4)
Plan:
65
65
24
34
72
57
43
12
3 5
2 4
36
34
12
13
4887
3766
2455
112 3
1
5887
3766
2544
1123
Solution 6:
Nonunique; 4-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Not a D(x), x
Groups: (2,4)
= 1, 2, 3
488877
367665
111223
245354
5786∞∞78
36755766
223444-5
1
TTT223 3
12
34
56
Plan:
1
1
1
201
\n--- PAGE 00000214 ---\nTABLE IX.
Regular group divisible designs - Continued
Solution 4: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Design R102: v= 8,
m= 2,
r = 10, k 4,
n = 4, λ₁ 6,
b = 20
=
λε 3
=
c₁ =
2/3, C2
=
1/4, H= 15, A =
54
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,4)
Plan: To the plan for Solution 6 of design R98
annex a replication whose blocks consist
of the two groups.
Solution 5: As given by John (1966); nonunique;
nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,4)
Plan:
6
7
18892345
45678123
23456781
12345678
5678 1 2 3 4
34567∞12
23456TB
12345678
7 8
8
1
1
5
2 4
6
34
78
1
5
b= 18
Design R101: v = 8,
m= 4,
r = 9,
n = 2,
k = 4,
λ₁ 3,
=
A2
= 4
C₁ =
= 2/5, C2
==
41/80, H 31/2, A = 60
2
E.83, E₂ = .86, E = .86
Solution:
3-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (4,2)
Plan:
E= .90, E₂ = .80, E = .84
2
Solution 1: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,4)
Plan: To the eight replications of Solution I
for design R98 annex two replications,
the blocks of each consisting of the two
groups.
Solution 2: Nonunique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,4)
Plan: To the eight replications of Solution 4
for design R98 annex two replications,
the blocks of each consisting of the two
groups.
Solution 3: Nonunique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,4)
Plan: To the blocks of Solution 5 for
design R98 annex two replications, the
blocks of each consisting of the two
groups.
Solution 4:
Nonunique; 5-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,4)
Plan: To the blocks of Solution 6 for design
R98 annex two replications, the blocks
of each consisting of the two groups.
6
6
88
Design R103: v=
8,
m= 4,
r = 10, k = 4,
n = 2, λ₁ = 6,
b= 20
λ2
=
= 2/3, C2'
=
=
E,
C₁ =
11/24, H= 17, A 72
.90, E₂ = .85, E = .85
Solution 1: True duplicate of solution for
design R97; nonunique; 5-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
78
87
370476
488587
263355
2
2
111224
4
787898
436756
24
34
43
224545
57
56
56
111233
13
12
2
12
Groups: (4,2)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of R97.
Solution 2: As given by Freeman (1957);
nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (4,2)
(Plan continued on next page)
202
\n--- PAGE 00000215 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs – Continued
78
18
7
34
43
56
56
12
2
1
12
Plan:
26
34
24
15
1
72
13
37
6 5
57
87
56
43
34
56
1
2
1
2
77
75
86
78
63
5
Solution 5:
Nonunique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups:
Plan:
(4,2)
78
6
88
87
56
24
43
24
13
48
4
1
2
8
12
43
34
57
56
87
2
6
12
13
1
3
1
2
88
78
Note: There exist at least four nonisomorphic
solutions for design R103 because the
present method of construction uses the
BIB design (8,14,7,4,3) which is known
from the work of Nandi (1946b) to have
four nonisomorphic solutions. Only the
resolvable solution for the BIB design is
used here.
Solution 3: As given by John (1966); nonunique;
nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
57
13
78
68
2 6
5
2
4
3 7
78
8
65
24
13
4788
3667
4
2455
24
5
1321
3
34
56
56
12
12
2
5788
7565
8687
3676
2544
3434
1321
1122
Solution 6:
Nonunique; 5-resolvable
87
43
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups: (4,2)
Plan:
6
88
24
4
57
3
13
6
7
18292345
887788
367665
245354
111223
5786∞∞∞
36755766
4
4
4
4
223----5
1111223
3
45678123
23456781
12345678
5678123+
345678-2
23456781
1
4
12345678
4638
5
1527
8274
5163
4
Groups: (4,2)
Plan:
b= 9
λα 1
=
Design R104: v=9,
r = 4,
m= 3,
n = 3,
k = 4,
λ₁ 3,
=
E,
=
c, 4/5, C21
=
=
135/16
4/45, H= 6, A
.94, E2.77, E= .80
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Design R137
Dual: Truly self dual, Clatworthy (1971a)
Groups: (3,3)
Plan:
5887
87
63
5
6
3766
43
34
57
2544
1123
4887
Solution 4:
Nonunique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (4,2)
Plan:
6
12
2
78
3766
65
2455
24
1123
13
88
24
87
3
13
88
57
43
12
56
2
12
78
34
36
2
5
12
23456789-
89123456
1
8
9
456789-23
123456789
203
\n--- PAGE 00000216 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs - Continued
Design R105: v= 9, r = 8,
3,
m= 3, n=
c₁ = 4/5,
=
c₂ 4/45, H= 12, A:
E, .94, E,= .77, E = .80
b
18
=
2
k = 4,
6, λ2
λι
=
= 135/4
Solution 1: True duplicate solution;
nonunique; 4-resolvable
Complement: Design R138, Solution 1
Dual: A D(3) WHC (1956)
Groups: (3,3)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of R104.
Solution 2: As given by Sprott (1955);
nonunique; 4-resolvable
Complement: Design R138, Solution 2
Dual:
Not a D(x), x =
1, 2, 3, 4
Groups: (3,3)
Plan:
Cyclically develop, modulo
initial blocks:
9, the two
1 2 4 7
1 2 5 8
Each initial block gives rise to four
replications and each position within
blocks to two replications.
Design R106: v= 10,
r = 8,
k = 4,
b= 20
=
0,
2
=
23
n = 2, A₁
m= 5,
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 2/5, H= 27/2, A = 45
E= .75, E₂ = .83, E = .82
Solution:
Dual:
2
4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3, 4
Groups: (5,2)
Plan: 11
6678951234
8966734512
10
10
10
789662345–
123456789
10
1234567890
10
6678951234
9067845123
8906734512
Design R107: v= 10, r = 10, k = 4,
m= 2, n = 5,
b=25
=
λ₁ 5, A₂ =
=
22
=
c₁ = 4/7, c₂ 2/35, H= 55/4, A = 175/4
E,= .87, E₂ = .76, E= .81
Solution 1: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r 15
Dual: Irregular
=
Groups: (2,5)
Plan:
4
4 5 69
6
8
7
9
3558∞∞∞∞797
223434-675656
1111223112233
9679aa9
6755777∞∞∞
5533344466
4411LL322224
9
7 10
6 10
10
9 10
8 10
9
9 10
8
=
8
6 10
8 10
8 10
8 10
Solution 2: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r 15
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,5)
Plan: 1
1
7855TTT66∞∞∞
4
5633355←←←66
8
1
9 10
1
10
1
1
9
10
4
10
4 8 10
9
9
10
garaaa9
8
6 10
8 10
8 10
10
5 7
447---322224
46800∞agad
3579975 T∞∞787
223434565656
111223IL2233
Solution 3:
= = 15
Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,5)
Plan:
1
4
4
111223172233
2
3558976∞∞787
22343←←OT BOSO
6
7
9
10
8
10
6
10
7
10
5
10
8 10
6
9
8 10
5
9
8 10
6
8
41111322224
553335544-66
67557776∞∞ ∞
7 10
a67aa9
8
6 10
204
\n--- PAGE 00000217 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs - Continued
Design R108: v= 10,
C 1
= 2/3, c₂
=
m= 5,
r = 10,
n = 2,
k = 4,
λ₁
b= 25
=
6,
λ2
-
3
Design R109: v= 12, r = 4,
k = 4,
b = 12
m= 6,
n= 2,
λι
=
2, A2
=
1
E, .90, E,
Solution 1:
1/3, H= 33/2, ▲ = 135/2
.82, E= .83
Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 15
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (5,2)
Plan:
=
4/7, cz
=
2/7, H= 13/2, ▲ = 21/2
E= .87, E₂ = .81, E = .81
Solution 1: As given in BCS (1954); nonunique;
nonresolvable
Complement: Design R186, Solution 1
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (6,2)
Plan:
2639300∞
1518276192737
10
10
8
6 10
10
5
10
6
10
5
57234567
656789012345
44123-567∞ ag
427494;
3151823 18293
9
8
7
8
9
5 10
5 10
1
6
8 3
9
4
567890
23456789
12345678
10
11
8
10
5
12
9
1
9 10 1
10
2
10
11
8
6
11
12
23
789OW212345
10
11
12
1
4 6
Solution 2: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 15
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (5,2)
Plan:
Solution 3:
151
243182786
26303T+SO∞967
9 10
4
5
8 10
428408baboono
9 10
3171925TIS23
8 5 10
3 10
6
9
6
6
5
10
48234s-go7
6667890-23+
541234567898
10
10 5
1
4 6
Nonunique; nonresolvable
= 15
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (5,2)
Plan: 1
9
5 10
79789gosto12
1 6
10 5
3
5
3151923812683
5
8
2
8
2
26393∞boo737
4 10
1
9 10
10
18236
10
42740 TOOTS968
10
7
5
8
9
9567890123 +5
441234567∞ag
10
Solution 2: As given by Freeman (1957), p. 485;
nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design R186, Solution 2
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (6,2)
Plan:
102439215780
7182
3
7
10
9
9
5
3
11
12
10
4
4
6
10
11
1
5
8
11
6 12
6 12
2
49386NSOLEL7
5
2
1
Design R110: v= 12,
10
5
4
1
2
572345g6N
6
m= 6,
r = 8,
n = 2,
k = 4,
λ₁ 4,
b= 24
=
λ2
= 2
7 10
7
8
9
5
10
6
1
8 3
9 4
= 4/7, c₂ = 2/7, H= 13, A =
E= .87, E,= .81, E = .81
Solution 1:
2
True duplicate solution; nonunique;
4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 16
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (6,2)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of R109, Solution 1.
(Plan continued on next page)
42
205
\n--- PAGE 00000218 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs - Continued
Plan:
Cyclically develop modulo 12 the initial
blocks
1 2 5 12
Solution 2: True duplicate solution; nonunique;
4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (6,2)
= 16
Plan: Duplicate the plan of R109, Solution 2.
Solution 3: As given by Freeman (1957), p. 485;
nonunique; 4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
=
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups: (6,2)
Plan:
370
10
16
718
12213a
493862502
6
7
86
718293OTISO2
102439215
9
5
11
12
10
4
8
4
1
6
10
7 10
4
11 1
5
11
3
5
8
11
10
5
9
6
22
1
6
12
10
7
6
9
12
1 2 4 9
and fractionally develop the initial
block
1 7 3 9
for 6 blocks. The two left-most (right-
most) positions within blocks contain
five replications.
Design R112: v= 14, r = 4,
m= 7,
n = 2,
k = 4,
b= 14
=
λι 0, A2 1
=
=
21/2
2
93
11
827
57261802413.
5
8
12
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 2/7, H= 13/2, A
E,= .75, E₂ = .81, E = .80
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Design R205
Dual: Truly self dual, Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (7,2)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 14, the single
initial block:
1 2 5 7
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
Design R111: v= 12,
m= 3,
r = 10,
n = 4,
k = 4,
b= 30
λ₁
=
2,
A2
330
Design R113; v = 14,
MF 7,
r = 8,
n = 2,
k = 4,
b= 28
λ₁
=
0,
2
=
2
1/4, c₂ = 17/48, H= 17, A = 72
E, .80, E₂ = .82, E = .82
Solution 1:
2
As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 20
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3, 4
Groups: (3,4)
Plan:
7
10
7
5 10
703.
252952
526345
TOTOL2
369212
14818а
8 11
9 12
10
1
64
8
11
1 12
10
184
632097
=
Ci 0, c₂ = 2/7, H= 13, A = 42
E= .75, E,= .81, E = .80
Solution:
Dual:
4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 20
A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (7,2)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of R112.
Design R114: v= 15, r = 4,
k = 4,
m= 5,
n=
3,
λι
=
- 0,
b= 15
1, = 1
1
6
4 11
Solution:
Nonresolvable
2 12
5
9
3
6
7 10
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 4/15, H= 27/4, ▲ = 45/4
E= .75, E,= .80, E = .80
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
=
11
8 11
Groups: (5,3)
7 10
9 12
Plan: 2 4 5 13
10 12 13
6
3
5
6
14
11
13 14
7
4
6
7
15
12
14 15
8
5
7
8
1
13
15
1
9
6
8
14 1
2
10
7
15 2
3
11
8
10 11
4
1
3
4 12
9
11 12
5
144569
811237
47815-
11
324935
11
12
212280
900176
6 10
9 10
REI482
11
1
916226
89575
372340
12
10 11
Solution 2:
As given by John (1966); nonunique;
nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 20
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,4)
206
\n--- PAGE 00000219 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs - Continued
Design R115: v= 15, r = 8,
m= 5,
n = 3,
A₁
=
k = 4,
6, Ag
b= 30
= 1
=
c, 4/5, c₂
=
-4/15, H= 45/4, A = 225/8
E, .94, E,= .70, E= .73
Solution:
4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 22
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups: (5,3)
Plan: Cyclically develop the six initial blocks
Solution 2: As given by John (1966); nonunique;
4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 22
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3; possibly a D(4)
Groups: (3,5)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 15, the two
initial blocks:
1 3 11 15
1 5 7 15
Each initial block gives rise to four
replications and each position within
blocks to two replications.
1
6 11
2
7
1 6
11
11
12
1
6
1
6
11
3
8
1
6
11
Design R118: v= 16,
r =
6,
k = 4,
b= 24
m= 4,
n = 4,
λ₁
=
2,
=
1
13 11 1 6
using cycles of length 5 and cycling
within the three subsets of treatments
1-5, 6-10, and 11-15. Four replications
are generated by the first three initial
blocks and by the last three. Within each
of these subsets of blocks, each position
within blocks contains a replication.
Design R116: v= 15,
b= 30
2
k = 4,
=
0,
λε
-
r = 8,
n = 3, λ₁
m= 5,
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 4/15, H= 27/2, A = 45
E,= .75, E,= .80, E= .80
Solution:
4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (5,3)
= 22
Plan: Duplicate the plan of R114.
c₁ = 2/5, c₂ = 7/40, H= 9, A = 20
=
=
E, .83, E, .78, E= .79
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 18
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups: (4,4)
Plan:
2402
1357
2413
3419
2918
4653
7519
3
3124
6 9
8 11
7 10
5 12
5 10
7 12
13 14
15 16
6 11 14 15
13 16
9
6 13
8 15
10 14
14
6
16 8
15 10 11 2
3 11
12 16
13 12
15 13
16 10
15
9
9 11
13 11
10 12
14 12
570G
16 14
349
3478
5656
12
4312
6578
Design R117: v= 15, r = 8,
m= 3,
k = 4,
n= 5, λι
=
1,
b= 30
A₂ = 2
375/8
c₁ = 4/25, c₂ = 36/125, H= 55/4, A =
E= .78, E,= .81, E = .80
2
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 22
Dual: Not a D(x), x =
1, 2, 3
Groups: (3,5)
Plan: 1 13 8
4
11
7 4
10
7
13
10
2 14
5
·70325-325
92536TORIT∞1425
4259243670314
258
1
4
10
581
703
13 11 12
10 1 14 15
13
7
48
10
11
8
8
11
11
14 12 10
15 13
14
11
14
3
15
6
9
25
12
15 12
53692
8
5
11
6 12
7
9 15 10 11
12
13
15
1
PRIS8142
2692534TOBL
H42592536
69253 +
4
7
Solution 2:
As given by Clatworthy (1967);
nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (4,4)
= 18
Plan:
To construct, use
Set 4.1 once
Set 4.4 once
Set 4.2
twice
Set 4.5
once
Set 4.3 once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
207
\n--- PAGE 00000220 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs – -
Continued
Design R122: v= 16, r= 9,
Design R119: v= 16,
r = 7,
k = 4,
b= 28
m= 4,
n = 4,
λ₁
=
3,
A2 1
=
c₁ =
1/2, C2
=
1/16, H= 10,
A:
= 24
E= .86, E₂ = .76, E = .78
Solution:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 21
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (4,4)
Plan: To construct, use
Set 4.1
once
Set 4.4
once
Set 4.2
3 times
Set 4.5
once
Set 4.3
once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design R120: v= 16,
m= 4,
r = 8,
n = 4,
k = 4,
λ₁ = 4,
b= 32
λ₂ = 1
CI
4/7, C2
=
-1/14, H= 11, A = 28
E, .87, E₂ = .74, E = .76
2
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 24
Solution:
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (4,4)
Plan: To construct, use
Set 4.1 once
Set 4.4
once
Set 4.2 4 times
Set 4.5
once
Set 4.3
once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design R121: v= 16, r =
9,
k = 4,
b= 36
m= 4,
n = 4,
λ₁
=
5,
=
2 1
=
5/8, C2
=
-7/32, H= 12, A = 32
E, .89, E,= .71, E = .74
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 27
Solution:
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (4,4)
Plan: To construct, use
Set 4.1 once
Set 4.4
once
Set 4.2 5 times
Set 4.5
once
Set 4.3
once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
m= 4,
k = 4,
n= 4, λ₁ = 1,
b= 36
λ₂ = 2
=
Ci
1/7,
C 2
=
=
59/224, H= 15, A 56
E= .78, E,= .80, E = .80
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Solution:
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (4,4)
= 27
Plan: To construct, use
Set 4.1
twice
Set 4.4
twice
Set 4.2 once
Set 4.5
twice
twice
b = 40
6,
λ2 = 1
Set 4.3
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design R123: v= 16, r = 10, k = 4,
m= 4, n = 4, λι =
c₁ = 2/3, c₂ = -3/8, H= 13, A = 36
E, .90, E₂ = .69, E= .72
=
Solution:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (4,4)
Plan: To construct, use
= = 30
Set 4.1 once
Set 4.4 once
Set 4.2
6 times
Set 4.5
once
Set 4.3
once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design R124: v= 20, r = 9,
m= 4,
k
=
4,
n=
5,
λι
=
3,
=
b = 45
A2 1
75/2
=
2/5, C2
=
1/25, H= 25/2, A =
E,= .83, E₂ = .76, E= .77
Solution:
3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (4,5)
=
36
(Plan continued on next page)
208
\n--- PAGE 00000221 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs - Continued
Plan:
1122334456
5 13 17
1
12
15 18
Design R126: v= 24,
r = 9,
k = 4,
7 14 20
2
5
16
19
m= 8,
n = 3,
λ₁ =
= 3,
A₂
b= 54
= 1
6 10 18
3
6
9 20
8
9
15
4
7
10 13
7 11
19
8
11 14 17
3 11 15
19
8
12
16
4 12
16
20
9
13
17
6 10
14 18
13428
9 13 17
1 2
3
4
5 6 7
9 10 11
12
13 14 15 16
17
18 19 20
10
58728
12364
17
14 18
11 15
68967
15432
8202
5
17 19
10
20 21
2 20 17 22
2 3 5 7
5 11
12 22
4 12 19
7
4 13
18 22
12
13 19
123
10 13 17
7
9
19 21 22
6
14 18
9 18 20
7
1 9 17 23
3 10 16 17
1 11 21
7
2 10 18 23
8
16 20
4
8 12 20
7
11 15 19
3 5
4
9
8
3 11 19 23
5 13 20
8
4 12 20 23
1 8 10 19
1 17
18
8
5
13 21 23
2 11 13 20
10 19 11
8
1
9
17 24
3
5 12 14
4 6 15 17
2 12 21 8
4 5 10 14
2
10 18 24
3 11 19 24
7
9 16 18
9 17 11 14
4 12 20 24
2
18 19 14
1 20 12 14
5 13 21 24
24
6 8 16
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/6, H= 45/4, ▲ =
E,= .75, E,= .78, E = .78
Design R125:
V= 24, r = 7,
m= 8, n = 3,
k = 4,
λ₁
=
0, λε
= 1
63/2
b= 42
3 13 21 14
6
7 14 22
5
9 1 15
7
8 15 23
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 35
10 18 12 15
3 19 20 15
2 11 13 15
4 17 21 15
9 10 2 16
1 19 13 16
8 14 16 24
14 15 22 6
15 16 23 7
16 22 24 8
22 23 6 14
23 24 7 15
7 15 19
5 11 18
6 10 14
12 16 20
11 16
10 15 20
14 19
13 18
7 12 17
5 9 13
c₁ = 2/5, c₂ = 1/10, H= 27/2, A = 45
E.83, E,= .77, E= .77
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 45
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (8,3)
Plan: 1 2 4
3 11 18
9 12 13
99996
4 20 11 16
3 12 17
5 18 21
16
10 1 3 22
999
16
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Groups: (8,3)
Plan: 1 2 16 13
1
8
21
3
2
3 24
5
2 22 15
4
C1
3
4 23
6
4 14 7 1
5 6
1 15
5 16
14 12
6 12 2 11
12 9 3 7
9 13 4 10
7 10 6 8
10 21 12 22
21 15 9 19
6 24 18 9
Solution:
12 23 8 13
Design R127: v= 24,
m= 3,
r = 10,
n = 8, λ₁
k = 4,
b= 60
=
2,
A2
= 1
= 1/4, c₂ = 3/32, H= 14, A = 48
E, .80, E,= .77, E= .78
2
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 50
9 20 22
13 17 19
5
Dual: Irregular
6
Groups: (3,8)
7
2 17 21
10
3 16 15
Plan: 1 13
7 19
7 19
1 13
15 11 13 14
21
4 24 11
2 14
8 20
8 20
2 14
11 7 5 18
11
1 20 10
3 15
9 21
9 21
3 15
19 14 10 24
19 12 1 18
4 16
10 22
10 22
4 16
8 15 20
8 22 11 17
22 19 7 16
14 18 21 23
18
14 9 2 8
5 17
11 23
11 23
5 17
18 13 3 22
8 5 4 19
20 21 6 16
6 18
12 24
12 24
6 18
20 17 14
3
17 15 12 24
17 16 18
24 23 22
23 20 19
412
16 11 9 23
24 7 13 20
18
23 10 5 17
136835
248216
5 22
7 24
22 24
17 18
11 21
20 23 9
10 12 13
19 20
13 14 17 10
5 6 9 14
15 16 19 12
7 8 11 16
3222°W
15
21
1234
(Plan continued on next page)
209
\n--- PAGE 00000222 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs - Continued
12
17
14 15
+60208
127935
235724
4 21
23
10
22
16
18 11
2220°4
9 10
2 4
11 12
8
14 16
9
21 22
23 24
173935
1 18
7 17
3 20
872508
Plan:
6
1 3
22 23 14
20 21
10 11
13 15 18
8
9
67BP4~
644282
16
8
10
12
2
5
4
6
19
24 14
16 18
12 17
20 22
13 11
252371
159722
1 23
123456789
2315
15 18
3 13 16
14
17
5 18 12
1
69
12
6 16 10
2
4 17 11
3
564867
789
17 13
18
14
16
15
11 16
12 17
10 18
8
12 15
4
2 14 10
9 10 13
5
3 15
11
11 14
6 1
13 12
19
10 11
11
12
12 10
13
14
27
14
15
11
3
23 13
7
15
19 21
186222
482260
15397
4 14
16 17
18
9 11
18 19
12 22
4
5
20
6
7
24
10
21
23
222004
8 13
10 15
14
123332
15 13
16 17
17 18 19
18 16
25
26
Design R128: v= 26, r =
8,
k = 4,
b= 52
3
m= 13, n= 2, λι
=
0,
A2 = 1
39
2222222
27
19 26
20
21
23 21
24
2222222222
23
8
24 9 5
27
25
20
19
222222222789123
22222220~~31564
16 14 26 22
25
17
15
27 23
26
18
13 25 24
10
17
20 25
11
18
21 26
20
12
16
19 27
24
13 11 23 19
4
7 6
222222222
20 21
21 19
23
24
25 26
27 25
22222222
14 12 24
15
10 22
19 20 6 9
8
45
5
23
9
24
26 27 1
78312
3
2270312645
2
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 2/13, H= 25/2, ▲ =
E,= .75, E₂ = .78, E = .78
Solution:
2
4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 44
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Groups: (13,2)
Plan: Cyclically develop the four initial blocks
2 4 10 14
16 20 19 1
3 7 6
14
15 17 23 1
using cycles of length 13 and cycling
within the two subsets of treatments 1-13
and 14-26. Four replications are
generated by the first two initial blocks
and by the last two. Within each of these
subsets of blocks, each position within
blocks contains a replication.
Design R129: v= 27, r = 8, k = 4,
m= 9, n = 3, λ₁
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 4/27, H= 51/4, A =
E= .75, E,= .78, E = .78
Solution:
2
4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Groups: (9,3)
= 46
=
b= 54
0, λ2 = 1
81/2
m= 7,
Design R130: v= 28,
r = = 8,
n = 4,
k = 4,
λ. = 0,
b= 56
λη 1
=
= 42
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/7, H= 13, ▲ =
E= .75, E, .78, E = .77
Solution:
=
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 48
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Groups: (7,4)
Plan: 8 14 23
420329m
22 21
10 20 4
123252∞
222222
28
14
16
20 11 19
6 21 25
16 15 24
26 27
10
21
13
13
17
12
28 27
18
17 26
1
7
5
6437927
11
15
18
6
20
9
PLUGIN C 2 w 5 5 8
19
12
2-33357
4810222
24
10 8
19
9
3
1
16
21
11
12 6
24 28
16
11 15
13 26 14
18 8
13 17
2
24
19 15 17
27
23
268247
26
5
18
14
20
25
19
14
15
12
21
17 25 20
28
9 13
2224263
27 10 16
3 22
18 23
5 24
8
1 26
11 7
25
23+2027
20 21
8 11
4
16 28
10
6 18 14
9 12
26
WARR422
15
27
17
13
5
19
24
(Plan continued on next page)
210
\n--- PAGE 00000223 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs -
– Continued
Design R132: v= 30, r = 10,
m 15, n= 2,
k = 4,
b= 75
λι
=
2,
A2
= 1
b= 70
c, 1/4, c₂ = 1/8, H= 31/2, A = 60
E, .80, E,= .77, E = .78
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Groups: (15,2)
= 65
Plan: Cyclically develop the five initial blocks
20
26
3
23
26
2
10
11
9
14
15
10
19
1
23
21
5
22
16
25
22
4
12
13
11
21
17
12
15
3
25
28
18
24
1
27
24
6
8
9
13
28
19
8
17
5
27
14
2
7
4
6
16
20
18
7
Design R131: v=
28,
r =
10,
k
=
4,
m= 7,
n = 4,
λ₁
= 2,
A2 = 1
c = 1/4, ca
=
=
56
13/112, H= 15, ▲ :
E.80, E₂ = .77, E= .78
2
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Solution:
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (7,4)
= 60
1 3 15 20
16
18 30 5
1
5 11 17
16
20 26 2
Plan: 8 14 23
20 11 19 22
6 21
16 15
12 28
18 17 26
1 7 5
222222"
25 10
24 13
27
420329m
21
222222
14
26 27
28
24
10 8
123352∞
16
4
15
13 18
17
9 20
HEB 222
043792~
11
6
1 16 9 24
using cycles of length 15 and cycling
within the two subsets of treatments 1-15
and 16-30. Four replications are
generated by the first two initial blocks
and by the second two; the last initial
The
block generates two replications.
two left-most (right-most) positions
within blocks contain five replications.
19
12
Design R133: v= 8,
m= 2,
r = 5, k= 5,
n = 4, λ = 4,
b = 8
λ2 2
=
2-2335
27 9 22 21
1
10 20 4
11
24 28
3 12
6 16
25 13 26 14
5 18
2
7 19 15 17
27
4810322
4 19 9 3
16
21 26
11 15
22
6 5
28 18
17 2
24
1
14 20
23 7 25
5/6, C2
-
5/16, H= 8, A = 384/25
E, .96, E₂ = .85, E= .90
2
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Truly self dual, Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (2,4)
123
3 10
4 11
567
89O1234
15 22
16 23
17 24
18
2222228
19 27
14
25
21
19 26
20 27
17 25 20
28
1 26
9 13 11
P3BSLI
2224263
10 16
3 22
Plan:
15 12 18 23
5 24
2
4
8
5678123 4
34567BL2
23456781
12345678
8
6
7 8
78123456
7 14
21
7
2
3
4
23
6
25
7
≈ 0 ã ã ã ∞ ~
20 21 15
8 11 27
16
28 17
10
13
11
18
14 19
9
12 1
26
22
24
2951832
20
26
14
5 22 16 25
21
18
24
28
7
+5-355 w
3 23
15 10
17 12
Design R134: v= 8,
r = 5,
k = 5,
b= 8
1 27
m= 4,
n = 2,
A₁
=
2, λε 3
=
19
8
4
6
26
19
22
15
24
17
16
20
214365 a
10 11
15 22
23 21
16 23
12 13
17 24
25 28
8 9
27 14
18 25
19 26 5
18 7
20 27
21 28
1234567
8
9
Nonresolvable
10
4 11
12
= 5/11, C2
=
85/132, H= 46/5, A = 528/25
E= .88, E,= .92, E= .91
Solution:
Complement: Design R54
Dual: Truly self dual, Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (4,2)
13
7 14
Plan:
1
6
2
17892345
56781234
45678123
34567812
2345678
211
\n--- PAGE 00000224 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs ---
– Continued
896234567
567891234
912345678
678912345
345678912
Plan:
Design R135: v = 8,
m= 2,
r = 10, k = 5,
n = 4, λ, 8,
b= 16
=
2
= 4
C₁ =
5/6, C2
-
5/16, H= 16, ▲ = 1536/25
E= .96, E₂ = .85, E = .90
Solution: Unique; 5-resolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (2,4)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of R133.
Design R136: v= 8,
r = 10, k = 5,
n = 2, λ₁
m= 4,
=
4,
=
b = 16
2
=
6
H= 92/5, A 2112/25
c, 5/11, c2 = 85/132,
E= .88, E₂ = .92, E = .91
Solution:
5-resolvable
Complement: Design R55
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (4,2)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of R134.
Design R137: v= 9, r = 5,
k = 5,
b=9
m= 3,
n = 3,
λι
=
4,
2
= 2
C₁ =
5/6, c2 = 10/27, H= 42/5, ▲ = 432/25
E, .96, E,= .86, E = .89
Solution:
2
Nonresolvable
Complement: Design R104
Dual: Truly self dual, Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (3,3)
Plan:
789123456
6789
2345
1
1
456789-23
345678912
123456789
3
912345678
678912345
8
345678912
78912345
456789123
6
Design R139: v= 10,
k = 5,
b = 10
λε 2
=
r= 5,
m= 5, n = 2, λ₁ = 4,
=
c₁ = 5/6, c₂ = 5/12, H= 44/5, A 96/5
E= .96, E,= .87, E = .88
Solution:
2
Nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (5,2)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 10, the single
initial block:
1 2 3 6 8
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
Design R140: v= 10,
r = 7,
m= 5, n = 2,
=
k = 5, b= 14
X₁ 4, λη = 3
=
18
4
=
c₁ =
5/8, C 2
23/48, H= 62/5, A = 192/5
E= .91, E₂= .88, E= .89
Solution 1:
2
As given by Liu and Chang (1964);
nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Self complementary but not truly
self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Design R138: v=
5/6, C2
9,
r =
10,
k = 5,
m= 3,
n=
3,
A1
=
· 8,
b=
2
=
1728/25
== 10/27, H= 84/5, A =
E= .96, E₂ = .86, E = .89
2
Solution 1: True duplicate solution; nonunique;
5-resolvable
Complement: Design R105, Solution 1
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (3,3)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of R137.
Solution 2: As given by Freeman (1957);
nonunique; 5-resolvable
Complement: Design R105, Solution 2
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3, 4
Groups: (3,3)
Groups: (5,2)
Plan: 1 2
5 6 10
2 3 6 7
1 6
7
8
9
10
2 4 6 7 8
1
3
5
6 8
3 4 5 6 9
1
4
6
9 10
2
3 4 8 9
1
2 3
7 9
2
5 8
1
2
4
5 7
1
3 4 8 10
4 5 7
9 10
3 5 7 8 10
9 10
Note: To determine that R140 and its complement
are distinct solutions analyze the
frequency of occurrence of treatment
triplets in each design, and then count
the occurrences of each treatment symbol
in those (31) triples that occur twice.
212
\n--- PAGE 00000225 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs -
– Continued
Solution 2:
Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design R140, Solution 1
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups: (5,2)
Plan: 3
4
7
8
9
1
4
5
8
9
2
4
5
10
1
3
9
10
2
4
7
9
10
1
2
7
8
10
2
3
5
7
8
1
5
6
7
10
4
6
8
10
1
3
6
7
3
6
8
9
10
1
2
4
6
9
2
5
6
7
9
1
2
3
6
8
b
5,
Ag
-
240
Design R141: v= 10, r = 10, k = 5,
m= 2, n= 5, λι
c₁ = 5/9, c₂ = 4/9, H= 17, A = 72
E,
.90, E,
.88, E.89
Solution 1: As given by Freeman (1957);
nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Self complementary but not truly
self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,5)
Plan:
10
8901234567
6789012345
4567896123
10
10
2345678961
1234567890
Design R142: v = 10,
Ci
=
b= 20
r =
10,
m= 5,
n = 2,
λ₁
=
k = 5,
8,
Az 4
=
5/6, c₂ = 5/12, H= 88/5, A = 384/5
E= .96, E₂ = .87, E = .88
Solution 1: True duplicate solution; nonunique;
5-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (5,2)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of R139.
Solution 2: As given by Freeman (1957), p. 481,
altered; nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Not a D(x), x =
Groups: (5,2)
Plan:
1
57897∞90∞∞
3645666778
2434555657
4
4
1323 +3 + 346
10
23445669
9013225478
8901113256
8
9 10
7∞aga0213-
5678789012
789001122
7 10
4
8 10
9
1
Note: The present
construction
technique
annexes
the two groups as blocks to a solution
for the BIB design (10,18,9,5,4) which is
known from the work of Clatworthy
Lewyckyj and Martino (1971) to have
several nonisomorphic solutions.
present design has several nonisomorphic
solutions also. The present solution
8
5
10
Thus the
8
utilizes the solution recorded by Rupp (1952).
Solution 2: As given by John (1966); nonunique;
5-resolvable
Complement: Self complementary but not truly
self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (2,5)
Plan:
7896123456
10
4567890123
3456789012
234567∞001
8
8 9
9
1234567∞00
1, 2, 3, 4
27
8
10
7
3
88
9
36
45
35
9
16
76
42
6
4
10
2
1
10
9
4
5
96
27
35
64
70
21
89
52
69
12
79
10
2
45
5
3
37
88
8
6
9
6
7 3 8 10
18
88
93
13
4
47
9
3
8
10
26
54
69
97
10
02
13
28
93
36
31
42
65
78
3
10 5 6
69
9
88
54
2 7
1
3
The first ten blocks and the last ten
blocks each contains one replication in
each position within blocks.
213
\n--- PAGE 00000226 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs - Continued
Design R143: v= 12,
r = 5,
m= 3,
n = 4,
λ₁
k = 5,
b= 12
= 4, λ = 1
=
5/6, C2 =
-5/24, H= 36/5, A = 288/25
E, .96, E₂ = .77, E = .81
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Design R174
Dual: Truly self dual, Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (3,4)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 12, the single
initial block:
1 2 4 7 10
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
Plan:
456
234567∞ONL
123456
4
12
5
7 10
11
12
7 8 10 1
8 9 11 2
9 10
10 11
3
4
11 12
12
5 10
1
6 11
23
56
89OI2123
789012
1
2345678981
Design R146: v= 12,
m= 3,
r = 10, k= 5,
n = 4, A₁ = 8, Ag 2
b= 24
=
Design R144: v= 12,
m= 6,
r = 5,
n = 2,
k = 5,
λ₁ 0,
b= 12
=
A2 : 2
=
C1 0, c₂= 5/12, H= 44/5, ▲
E, .80, E,= .87, E = .87
=
96/5
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Design R175
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (6,2)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 12, the single
initial block:
1 2 4 9 12
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
Design R145: v= 12,
m= 4,
r = 5, k = 5,
n = 3, λ₁ = 1,
b= 12
λ₂ = 2
c₁ = 5/6, c₂ = -5/24, H= 72/5, ▲ = 1152/25
E, .96, E,= .77, E= .81
Solution 1:
True duplicate solution; nonunique;
5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 14
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (3,4)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of R143.
Solution 2: As given by Sprott (1955);
nonunique; 5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 14
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3, 4
Groups: (3,4)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 12, the two
initial blocks:
1 2 4
7 10
1 3 4 7 10
Each initial block gives rise to five
replications and each position within
blocks to two replications.
c₁ = 5/21, c₂ = 55/126, H= 9, A = 504/25
E, .84, E,= .88, E = .87
2
Solution 1: Nonunique'; nonresolvable
Complement: Design R176, Solution 1
Dual: Truly self dual, Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (4,3)
Plan:
2
4
45678961
234567
123456789
10
7
8 10
11
10 12
11 1
78901E
10
11
67890121234
12
1
2
3
4
11 12 2
5
12
1
3
23
See David and Wolock (1965).
23456
Solution 2: As given by David and Wolock (1965);
nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design R176, Solution 2
Dual: Truly self dual, Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (4,3)
Design R147: v= 12, r = 10, k = 5,
m= 6, n = 2, λ₁ = 0,
b= 24
A2 4
=
=
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 5/12, H= 88/5, A 384/5
E, .80, E, .87, E = .87
Solution:
5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 14
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (6,2)
Plan:
Duplicate the plan of R144.
Design R148: v= 12, r = 10, k = 5,
m= 4, n = 3, λ₁ = 2, A2
=
=
b= 24
=
4
c₁ = 5/21, c₂ = 55/126, H= 18, A 2016/25
E, .84, E, .88, E= .87
Solution 1: As given by Clatworthy (1956);
nonunique; 5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 14
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (4,3)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of R145, Solution 1.
(Plan continued on next page)
214
\n--- PAGE 00000227 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs - Continued
123456
2345
6 12 13 14
7 13
15
8 14 15 11
15 11 12
10 11 12 13
11 2
Solution 2: As given by John (1966); nonunique;
5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 14
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3, 4
Groups: (4,3)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 12, the two
initial blocks:
1 2 3
6 12
1 3 6 8 12
Each initial block gives rise to five
replications and each position within
blocks to two replications.
Solution 3:
Nonunique; 5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 14
Dual: A D(3), Clatworthy (1956)
Groups: (4,3)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of R145, Solution 2.
Design R149: v= 15, r = 10,
k = 5,
b= 30
m= 5, n = 3,
λ₁
=
8,
2
= 2
C₁ =
=
= 5/6, c₂ = 0, H= 78/5, A 288/5
E= .96, E,= .80, E = .82
Solution:
2
5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 20
Dual: Not a D(x), x =
Groups: (5,3)
1, 2, 3, 4, 5
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 15, the two
initial blocks:
1 2 6 7 11
1 3 6 8 11
Each initial block gives rise to five
replications and each position within
blocks to two replications.
Design R150: v= 15,
r = 10, k = 5,
b= 30
m= 5,
n = 3, A₁ 2,
=
A₂ = 3
7
12 3
8
13
9
14
10
15
11
1
12 2
13
3
14
10
15
5 6
451239067∞
3451289067
451789ge
8
Solution 2: As given by John (1966); nonunique;
5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 20
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3; possibly a D(4)
Groups: (5,3)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 15, the two
initial blocks:
1 2 3 5 8
1 2 5 9 11
Each initial block gives rise to five
replications and each position within
blocks to two replications.
Design R151; v = 18,
m= 9,
r = 10, k = 5,
n = 2, λ₁ 8,
=
b= 36
2 = 2
c,
E,
=
5/6, c,"
=
5/36, H= 84/5, A = 1728/25
.96, E,= .82, E= .83
Solution:
5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 26
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3, 4
Groups: (9,2)
Plan: 1 10 2 11
=
c₁ = 5/21, c2 65/189, H= 87/5, ▲ = 378/5
E,
.84, E,= .86, E= .86
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups: (5,3)
1 10
3 12
1 10
4 13
1 10
5 14
2 11
3 12 18
2 11
4 13 16
678986
1
10
2 11 15
1
10
3 12 16
1 10
4 13 17
1 10
5 14 18
2 11
3 12 9
2 11
4 13 7
= 20
2 11
5 14 17
2 11
5 14 8
3 12
5 14 15
3 12
5 14 6
3 12
8 17 4
3 12
8 17 13
4 13
9 18
3
4 13
9 18 12
Plan: 1
6
2
3
78
221
13
14
243
13
15
4 13
6 15 5
4 13
6 15 14
11
5 14
7 16 13
5 14
7 16
4
12
6 15
8 17 10
6 15
8 17
1
4 9
15
11 13
6 15
9 18 11
6 15
9 18 2
5 10 11 12
14
6 15
7 16 12
6 15
7 16 3
6 11 2 3
5
7 16
9 18 1
7 16
9 18 10
7 12
3
4
1
7 16
8 17 2
7 16
8 17 11
8
13
9 14
10
15
11
1
12
13
14
15
2345
2345
2
4
45178966
5
2
8 17
9 18
14
8 17
9 18 5
1
3
2
4
8 10
167
9
6
10
7
8
9
215
\n--- PAGE 00000228 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs - Continued
Design R152: v= 20,
r = 10,
m= 5,
n = 4,
k = 5,
X₁
b= 40
8,
2
1
c, = 5/6, c2
=
-5/8, H= 68/5, A = 192/5
E= .96, E,= .71, E= .74
Solution:
5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 30
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups: (5,4)
Plan:
Cyclically develop the eight initial
blocks
1 6 11 16 2
7
1 6
11 16
16 12 1
6
11
11
16 17
1
6
1
6
11
16 3
8
1
6
11 16
6 11
Solution:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 28
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (5,5)
Plan: To construct, use
Set 5.1
once
Set 5.4
once
Set 5.2
twice
Set 5.5
once
Set 5.3
once
Set 5.6
once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design R156: v= 25,
r = 8,
m= 5, n = 5, A₁
k = 5,
b= 40
3,
=
1
c₁ = 3/7, c₂ = 11/175, H= 12, A = 35
E,= .87, E,= .81, E = .82
Solution:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 32
16 13 1
11 16 18 1 6
using cycles of length 5 and cycling
within the four subsets of treatments
1-5, 6-10, 11-15 and 16-20. Five replica-
tions are generated by the first four
initial blocks and by the last four.
Within each of these subsets of blocks,
each position within blocks contains a
replication.
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (5,5)
Plan: To construct, use
Design R153: v = 24,
m= 6,
r = 5,
n = 4,
k = 5,
λ₁
=
0,
b= 24
1, = 1
c,
=3
0, c₂ = 5/24, H= 44/5, ▲ = 96/5
=
E, .80, E, .83, E = .83
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 19
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (6,4)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 24, the single
initial block:
1 2 5 10 12
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
Set 5.1 once
Set 5.4
once
Set 5.2 3 times
Set 5.5
once
once
Set 5.6
once
Set 5.3
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design R157: v= 25,
r = 9,
n = 5, λ,
m= 5,
k = 5,
b= 45
=
4,
λε 1
=
c₁ = 1/2, c₂ = -1/25, H= 13, A = 40
E.89, E, .79, E = .81
Solution:
=
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (5,5)
Plan: To construct, use
= 36
Design R154: v= 24, r = 10, k = 5,
m= 6, n= 4, A, = 0,
b: =48
A2 2
=
c₁ =
0, c₂ = 5/24, H= 88/5, A = 384/5
E, .80, E₂ = .83, E = .83
5-resolvable
Solution:
Complement: Not listed, r = 38
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Groups: (6,4)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of R153.
b= 35
2, A2 1
Design R155; v = 25, r = 7,
k = 5,
n= 5,
n = 5,
λ₁
=
C 1
=
=
=
=
1/3, C2
E, .86, E₂ = .82, E = .83
11/75, H= 11, A 30
=
Set 5.1 once
Set 5.4
once
Set 5.2
4 times
Set 5.5
once
once
Set 5.6
once
Set 5.3
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design R158: v= 25, r = 10, k = 5,
m= 5, n = 5, A₁ = 5,
=
b= 50
2 1
==
2
c, 5/9, c₂ = -7/45, H 14, A =
E, .90, E₂ = .78, E= .79
= 45
Solution:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 40
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (5,5)
(Plan continued on next page)
216
\n--- PAGE 00000229 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs - Continued
Plan: To construct, use
blocks and by the last three. Within each
of these subsets of blocks, each position
within blocks contains a replication.
Set 5.1 once
Set 5.4
once
Set 5.2 5 times
Set 5.5
once
Set 5.3 once
Set 5.6
once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design R159: v= 35,
r = 10, k = 5,
m= 5,
n = 7,
λ₁ 2,
=
b= 70
A2 = 1
Design R161: v= 40, r= 9, k 5,
m 10, n= 4, λ =
b= 72
0, A2 1
= € 63
= 0, c₂= 1/8, H= 76/5, A = 288/5
E, .80, E,= .82, E= .82
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Groups: (10,4)
=
C 1 5/21, c₂ = 5/49, H= 77/5, ▲ = 294/5
E= .84, E₂ = .82, E = .82
Solution:
2
5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 60
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups: (5,7)
Plan: Develop cyclically the fourteen initial
blocks
6 11 21
2
5
11 16 26
16 21 31
7 10
12 15
21 26 1
17 20
26 31
6
22 25
31
1 11
27 30
1
6 16
32 35
6 11 21 3 4
11 16 26
8 9
16 21 31 13 14
21 26 1 18 19
26 31 6 23 24
31 1 11 28 29
1 6 16 33 34
using cycles of length 5 and cycling
within the seven subsets of treatments
1-5, 6-10, 11-15, 16-20, 21-25, 26-30 and
31-35. Five replications are generated
by the first seven initial blocks and by
the last seven. Within each of these
subsets of blocks, each position within
blocks contains a replication.
Design R160: v= 39, r = 10, k = 5,
m 13, n = 3, λ₁
CI
-
5/21, C2
=
b
=
=
2, A2
=
=
95/819, H= 81/5, A 1638/25
E, .84, E, .82, E = .82
Solution:
5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 68
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Groups: (13,3)
Plan: Cyclically develop the six initial blocks
2 4 10 14 27
15 17 23 27 1
28 30 36 1 14
29 33 32 1 14
16 20 19 27 1
3 7 6 14 27
78
1
Plan: 9 18 30
37
6
23 19 25 12
10 22 37 11 28
20 8 12 13 29
24 9 13 36 15
26 23 21 2 30
34 10 36 27 25
35 20 2 3 37
6 1 27 14 12
16 24 3 7 11
28 26 14 17 13
29 34 7 38 21
31 35 17 39 36
15 6 38 4 2
30 16 39 32
16
34 35 1
35 6 24
13
22
27
25 28 4 40
3
2
37 29 32
33
14
27
21 8
16 28 34 2 9
28 29 35 27 23
29 31 6 3 10
31 15 16 14 20
15 30 28 7 1
30 25 29 17 24
25 37 31 38 26
37 12 15 39 34
12 11 30 4 35
11 13 25 32 6
13 21 37 40 16
21 36 12 33 28
36 2 11 5 29
27 13 18 31
3 21 19 15
12 31 40 5
7
3 14 36 22 30
11 15 33
18
17
14 7 2 8 25
13 30 5 19
21 25 18 22 39
36 37 19 8 4
27 11 8 9 40
14 21 9 10 5
7 36 23 20 18
17 2 10 1 19
38 27 20 24 22
39 3 1 26 8
32 7 26 35 9
40 17 34 6 23
33 38 35 16 10
5 39 6 28 20
18 4 16 29 1
19 32 28 31 24
22 40 29 15 26
8 33 31 30 34
38
17 38
9 12
38 39 14
23 11
39 4 7
10 13
9 25 33
1 24 23 37 5
24 26 10 12 18
26 34 20 11 19
4 32 17 20 21
32 40 38 1 36
40 33 39 24 2
33 5 4 26 27
5 18 32 34 3
18 19 40 35 14
19 22 33 6 7
22 8 5 16 17
9 23
23 10
20 1
22 31 4
8 15 32
Design R162: v= 44, r= 10,
m= 11, n =
4, λι
=
0,
k = 5, b= 88
A2
=
1
=
352/5
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 5/44, H= 84/5, A
E= .80, E₂ = .82, E = .82
Complement: Not listed, r = 78
Groups: (11,4)
Plan: To construct this rather large design the
reader is referred to the publication of
Bose, Shrikhande and Bhattacharya (1953),
Design No. 13, Table V, page 174, Design
No. 8, Table III, page 171, and theorem 1,
page 173.
using cycles of length 13 and cycling
within the three subsets of treatments
1-13, 14-26, and 27-39. Five replications
are generated by the first three initial
217
\n--- PAGE 00000230 ---\nTABLE IX.
Regular group divisible designs - Continued
Design R163: v= 45, r = 10,
m= 9,
n=
5,
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 1/9, H= 17, A -
E, .80, E₂ = .82, E= .82
Complement: Not listed,
Dual: Not a D(x), x =
Groups: (9,5)
A1
= 72
r
= 80
1, 2
=
0,
k = 5,
b = 90
Design R164: v= 8,
r =
9,
k= = 6,
λ2
= 1
m= 2,
n = 4,
λ₁ 7,
=
=
b= 12
A2 6
Plan: 2 3 22 25
10
19 20
42 45 30
3 1 23 26 11
23 24
43 37 31
1
2
24 27 12
24 22
44 38 32
5
6 25 19 13
22 23
45 39 33
6
4 26 20 14
26 27
37 40 34
4
5 27 21 15
27 25
38 41 35
1122
3344
8
9 19 22 16
25 26
39 42 36
9
7 20 23 17
29 30
4
7 37
7
8 21 24 18
30 28
5
8 38
11
12 31 34 19
28 29
6
9 39
12 10 32 35 20
10 11 33 36 21
14 15 34 28 22
15 13 35 29 23
13 14 36 30 24
17 18 28 31 25
18 16 29 32 26
16 17 30 33 27
20 21 40 43 28
21 19 41 44 29
32 33
7
1 40
33 31
8
2 41
31 32
9
3 42
35 36
1
4 43
36 34
2
5 44
34 35
3
6 45
1122
1122
4837
2695
77∞∞
5566
2413
778∞
5566
3344
2413
7788
5566
3344
c, = 21/26, c₂ = 291/416, H= 50/3, A = 208/3
E, .96, E,= .94, E = .95
2
Solution: Unique; 3-resolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Groups: (2,4)
Plan:
8
8
8
6857
8675
38 39
13
16
1
39 37 14
17
2
37 38 15 18 3
Design R165: v= 9,
r =
10,
k = 6,
b= 15
41 42 16 10 4
m= 3, n = 3, λ₁ = 7,
λε = 6
42 40 17 11
5
25 23
44 40 30
40 41 18 12
6
20 27
39 44 31
44 45 10
13
7
21 25
37 45 32
45 43 11 14
8
19 26
38 43 33
43 44 12 15
9
8 6 27 23 10
9
4 25 24 11
7
5 26 22 12
-2311
9 21 26 13
23 21 42 38 34
24 19 40 39 35
22 20 41
35 33
36 31 7
2-resolvable
37 36
9
5 37
6 38
7 19 27 14
34 32 8
4 39
8 20 25 15
29 36
3
8 40
5 3 24 20 16
30 34
6
1 22 21 17
28 35
4
2 23 19 18
32 30
17
15 36 32 19
33 28
18 13 34 33 20
16 14 35 31 21
11 18 30 35 22
12 16 28 36 23
10 17 29 34 24
14 12 33 29 25
15 10 31 30 26
13 11 32 28 27
26 24 45 41 28
27 22 43 42 29
31 29
44 42 18
45 40
43 41 17
38 45
17 4
39 43 10 18 5
37 44 11 16 6
41 39 15 11 7
42 37 13 12 8
1264H2O
9 41
7 42
2 43
3 44
5
1 45
14
1
15
2
13 3
6
40 38 14 10 9
966
866
887
897
7
885
695
446
554
564
774
332
332
332
231
633
877
799
789
496
886
522
544
655
456
417
117
211
211
123
=
Ci 14/19, c₂ = 328/513, H= 37/2, A = 171/2
E,
.95, E, .93, E = .94
Solution:
2
Complement: Design R59
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (3,3)
Plan: 4
779
218
\n--- PAGE 00000231 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs – -
Continued
Design R166: v= 10,
r = 6,
m= 2,
n = 5,
λ₁
k = 6,
= 5, A2
b= 10
= 2
Design R168: v= 15,
r =
6,
k = 6,
b= 15
=
5,
=
2 1
=
c, 6/7, c2:
=
3/35, H= 55/6, A = 175/9
-
E, .97, E₂ = .85, E = .90
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (2,5)
Plan:
123
2345678961
9012345678
789612
456
23
4
5
6
10
7
1 3
8
10
4
9
5
10
10
2
4
9
587806
345678901
=
=
n = 5, λ₁
m= 3,
c, 6/7, c₂ -18/35, H= 25/3, ▲ = 175/12
E= .97, E₂ = .77, E = .82
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Design R194
Dual: Truly self dual, Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (3,5)
Plan:
Cyclically develop, modulo 15, the single
initial block:
1 4 7 10 13 2
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
Design R169; v = 18,
m= 6,
r = 8, k = 6,
n = 3, A₁ = 5,
b= 24
2
=
22
=
c, 2/3, c₂
=
2/9, H= 27/2, A
= 45
b= 18
E= .94, E₂ = .87, E= .87
Solution:
Nonresolvable
= 16
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (6,3)
Design R167: v= 12,
m= 3,
r = 9,
n = 4,
k = 6,
λ₁
=3
7, λ2
= 3
= 3/13, H= 44/3, A
= 52
c, = 21/26, cz
E, .96, E₂ = .87, E = .89
Solution:
2
3-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: A D(3)
Groups: (3,4)
Plan:
445566
112233
7 10
5
8 11
6
10
4OSE62
172839
7
8 11
5
12
10
7 10
8 11
8 11
9 12
9 12
1
3
7 10
8 11
8 11
9 12
12
9 12 7 10
7 10
8 11
Plan: 1 7 13
1 7 13
2
8 14
4 10 16
4 10 16
233566
8 14
9 15
9 15
5 11 17
5 11 17
777∞∞∞969
11122233 3
SA6240
283917
819278
253614
C4ES26
5 11
2 5 6 12
9 12
4 10
2 11
3 12
182907
253614
445566
112233
1 10
8
13
409
12 18
6 12 18
5 6
13 10 11 12
13 16 17 18
8 14 4 11 18
333444555
14
6 10 17
8 14 5 12 16
9 15 4 12 17
15
5 10 18
9 15 6 11 16
4 10 16
4 10 16
17
4 10 16 13 14 15
284879278
5 11 17 1 8 15
5 11 17
17
5 11
6 12 18
6 12 18
6 12 18
3
2123
14
9 13
9
14
8 13
3
9
15
219
\n--- PAGE 00000232 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs - Continued
Solution:
14/99, H= 10, ▲ = 99/4
E, .92, E,= .85, E= .86
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Self dual, Hoffman (1963)
Design R170: v= 27,
r = 6,
=
k 6,
b= 27
m= 9,
n = 3,
λ₁
=
3,
Az
=
1
6/11, c₂ =
Plan:
2
9
3
5
17 26
17
16
23
3
19
12
9
2
19
10
12 24
16
23
10 24
26
1
15
7
14
10
17
1
24 3
15 21 28
Nonresolvable
= 21
22
8
24
28
3
21
8
22 14
7
10 17
4
1
25
2 8 16
Groups:
(9,3)
23
25 15
9
22
18
11 9
23
1
Plan:
1
10
19
6
14
1
10
13
19
22
1
2
11
20 24
15 2
11
20
22
20 23
2 11
3 15
23
5 13
24 21
6
12
22 14
21
22
4
13 7
13
16
4
22
4 26
27
23
5
14
27 7
8
25
5
16
14
9
5
18 6 26
15
24
27
6
16
9
24 15
17 25
MINNALE ≈ ∞ ~ w Ñ . Ñ 55G
4
11
18
2
22
16
19
15
3 10
6
18
4
23 10 24
27 24
17 11
4
14
24 4 18 17 13 20
63
5
25
6 13
3
6 5 12
13
20
11
20
12
21
15
27 8
12
5
22222222222
5
4
8
15
27
25
10
13
3 12
20 19 26
8
15
6
3
26 13 22
19
27
1
8
9
5 28
11
4
7
19
17
18
7
12 28
26
25
18
25 13 22
19
21 5
25
18 14
17
12 26
21
14 11
18 14 23
13 7 21
6
23
2
23
26
28 14 20
27
23
24
7
21 20 27
7
15
8
14
6 16
13
28
9
6
7 3
16
1
2
25
12
7
25
10
11
16
25
21
21
17
26
27
11 9
202728a
7
19 16
20
19
17
10 18 21
783228
17
26
1 11
12
26
2
Ci
12
18
8923
20 10
18
1
27
27
19
39/224, H= 10, A = 224/9
E, .89, E, .86, E= .86
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 22
Dual: Self dual, Hoffman (1963)
Groups: (7,4)
Design R171: v= 28,
m= 7,
r = 6,
n = 4,
k = 6,
A₁
=
2,
λε
=
CI
3/8, c'
Plan:
b= 28
21
Design R172: v= 9,
7/8, C2
133/180, H= 93/7, ▲ =
E= .98, E,= .96, E = .96
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Truly self dual, Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (3,3)
=
r = 7,
k = 7,
b= 9
m= 3,
n = 3,
λ₁
=
6,
λ2
= 5
2160/49
2
234567896
123456789
56789
1
8 2
23
1
4
912345678
5
8
674912345
9
8
2
345678912
816234567
Design R173: v= 12,
r = 7,
m= 2,
n = 6,
=
k = 7,
λ₁ 6, λε
b= 12
=
2
c₁ = 7/8, c₂ = -7/48, H= 72/7, A = 1152/49
E, .98, E₂ = .84, E= .90
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual:
Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (2,6)
(Plan continued on next page)
220
\n--- PAGE 00000233 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs - Continued
Plan:
Design R176: v= 12,
m= 4,
r = 7,
n = 3,
k = 7,
b= 12
=
A₁ 3, A2
= 4
=
2160/49
11
6
12345TEE
7
10
11
58789REE
3456789QE2
8 10 12
9 11
10 12
1
1
17
23
6
10
789612123456
9
10
11
12
1
2
34
3
4
6
8
7 9
234567∞ 12
121234567∞aα
8
9
10
11
2 4
8
10
1
c₁ = 7/15, c₂ 217/360, H= 93/7, ▲ =
E= .92, E₂ = .94, E = .93
Solution 1:
2
Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design R145, Solution 1
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (4,3)
21234567BROE
23456
10
7 8
8 9
10 11
CA2I23456789
2345678
7
10 11
12
10 11 12
9012
7 10 11 12 1
8 10
9
11
11 12 1
1
89OI21234567
Plan: 3 5
4
6
Design R174: v= 12,
m= 3,
r = 7,
n = 4,
k = 7,
λ₁ = 6,
b = 12
λ₂
-
23
5
6
c₁ = 7/8,
=
c₂ 35/96, H= 12, A = 1728/49
E, .98,
E,= .90, E = .92
2
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Design R143
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (3,4)
Plan:
11
12
12
78
10
11
12
1
2
89OI21234
234567890
890121234567
10
PA2123456
11
56789012123
456789DIE
10
8
8 9 11
9 10
12
10
23
10
11
11 12
1
3
4
234567BREY
1234567BREE
1
Solution 2:
Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design R145, Solution 2
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (4,3)
Plan:
6 8 9
10
9 11
12
10
12
Design R175: v= 12, r = 7,
m= 6, n = 2,
k = 7,
λ₁ =
b= 12
11
1
= 2, A2
= 4
12
1212
3456
7
8 10 11
56789OEZI234
7 9 10
8 10
11
9 11 12
10 12 1
1
121234567890
P12123456789
2345678
234567
1212345
c, 7/22, c₂:
=
E,=
2
105/176, H= 92/7, ▲ = 2112/49
= .90, E₂ = .94, E = .93
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Design R144
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (6,2)
Plan:
121234567∞ag
7
8
9
10
8
10
D12123456
1212345
6789
7
10 11
8 9 11 12
45678-2123
3456
96
10
12
9 10 11
212
8
10
11
10 11 12
234567ARGARL
11
12
12 1
123456789012
221
\n--- PAGE 00000234 ---\nTABLE IX.
Regular group divisible designs - Continued
c, = 7/8,
=
Nonresolvable
Design R177: v= 14, r = 7,
m= 7, n= 2,
c₂ 7/16, H= 90/7, A = 288/7
E, .98, E,= .91, E = .92
Solution:
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (7,2)
k=
7,
b= 14
Plan:
5
9
13 17
λ1
=
6, A₂ = 3
6
10 14
18
7 11
15
19
8 12
16 20
1
17 9
2
18 10
3
19 11
4
20
12
13 1
17
14 2
18
15 3
19 7
16
4
20
Plan: 1
8 10
9
11 1
2
6
13
8
12
6
1
8
2353
392
4
17
10
18
12
23
19 7 3 11 13 16
5
20 8 4
4
11
7
1
14
9 13
5
14
4
11
12
7
1
8
10
14
6
7
14
13
3
6
10
1
11 15 7
10
6
13
14
7
3
12
16 8
345656TAPON21234
432187
314275
241368
7029
8 6
10 11 12
12 9 11
12 10
52
8 11 10
9
1 9 14 15
16
6 2 10 16 13
15
14
15
14
13
18 19
20
20
19
17
18
19
18
17
2
3
12
14
7
10
12
7
14
9
9
7
2
6
13
4
11
13
2
14
11
6
3
5
12
4
10
11
5
3 4
10
11
12
21963
Design R180: v=
20,
r =
7,
k = 7,
b= 20
m 10, n= 2,
λ₁ = 6,
A2
= 2
c₁ = 7/8,
c₂
=
-
Design R178: v= 18,
r = 7,
k = 7,
b= 18
m= 3, n = 6,
λ₁ = 6,
λ₂
- 1
c₁ =
7/8, C2
=
2
-119/144, H= 66/7, ▲ = 864/49
E= .98, E,= .77, E = .82
Solution:
Nonresolvable
=
Complement: Not listed, r 11
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (3,6)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 18, the single
initial block:
1 4 7 10 13 16 2
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
Design R179: v= 20, r = 7,
21/80, H= 88/7, A = 1920/49
E,= .98, E, .89, E = .89
Solution:
Nonresolvable
= 13
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (10,2)
Plan: 1
13
15
11
19
6
7
2
16
23816255
32101722
4 11
1
14
587
8 11 9
21
321
12
11
18 5
8
17 1
15
10 7
20 11 16
1
6
15 10 6
20
2 12
5
10
12
8 9 19 2
7
17
19 9 7
12
17
18
2
3 6 13 16
9
19
5
9
13 6
15 16
19
k
m= 4,
n = 5,
A₁
=
= 7,
3, λε
=
b= 20
2
18 7
10
13
3 20 8
8
10
17 20
13
5
15
14
3 18
7 17 3
17
14 7
15 13
14 16
6 18
Nonresolvable
4 18 12
10 14 19
20
2 4
8 6 14 16
20 4 1
4 11 10 19 9 14
C₁ = 7/15,
C2
=
91/300, H 85/7, A= 1800/49
E, .92, E, .90, E = .90
Solution:
Complement: Not listed, r = 13
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (4,5)
Design R181: v=
c, 1/3, c,:
=
28,
m= 4,
r = 10, k == 7,
n = 7, λ₁
= 3,
3/14, H= 17, A = 72
E, .90, E,= .88, E = .89
Solution: Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (4,7)
= 30
~2
=
b= 40
λα
(Plan continued on next page)
222
\n--- PAGE 00000235 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs – Continued
Plan:
To the 36 blocks of the BIB design
(28,36,9,7,2), a solution (or plan) for
which may be found on page 482 of Cochran
and Cox (1957), annex the m= 4 groups as
blocks to obtain the b = 40 blocks
required for this design.
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 48, the single
initial block:
1 2 5 11 31 36 38
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
Design R184: v= 49,
Design R182: v= 33, r = 7, k = 7,
m= 3, n = 11, λ₁ = 2,
b= 33
m= 7,
r = 9,
n = 7,
k = 7,
λι 2,
b= 63
=
A2 1
=
λ₂ = 1
c₁ =
1/4, C2
=
11/98, H= 15, A = 56
CI
7/22, C2
=
14/121, H= 11, A = 1452/49
E, .90, E₂ = .87, E= .88
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 26
Dual: Self dual, Hoffman (1963)
E= .89, E,= .87, E = .87
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Solution:
Dual: Irregular
= 54
Groups: (3,11)
Groups: (7,7)
Plan: To construct, use
Plan:
13
25
28
31
4703622222
10 19
16
19 28
31
2222222
13
16
16
19
25
25
28
31
1
4
7
1 10
5
BALE22222
8 17
11 20 23
14 23 26
17 26 29
20
29
PANKREATOR22222
28
10
2
3
31
13
6
1
16
9
4
19
11
12
7 22
14
15
10 25
17
18
1 13
28
20
21
4 16
31
23
24
once
Set 7.1 once
Set 7.5
once
Set 7.2 twice
Set 7.6
once
Set 7.3
once
Set 7.7
once
Set 7.4
Set 7.8
once
19
1
26
27
10 22
4
29
30
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
13
25
7
32
33
29
11
3
1
Design R185: v= 49,
20
32
14
4
m= 7,
r = 10,
n = 7, λ₁ 3,
=
k= 7, b= 70
A₂ = 1
2 17
9
7
5
20
12
10
8 23
13
32
11
26
18
16
23 32 2
14
29
21
19
Solution:
26
2
17 32
24 22
=
c, = 1/3, c₂ 3/49, H= 16, A = 63
E, .90, E₂ = .86, E = .87
Complement: Not listed, r
Resolvable
= 60
29
5 8
20
2 27 25
Dual: Irregular
32
8
11 23
5
30 28
2 11 14 26
6 15 18
30
9
18 21
33
12
21 24 3
8258
33 31
1
2
Groups: (7,7)
Plan: To construct, use
15 24 27
6
21
21
227833
30
33
12 27 16 17
24
33 3 15 30 19
20
3
6 18 33
23
30
6
9 21 3 25 26
32
4722222
18 27 30 9 24 13 14
12 24 6 28 29
25
12 15 27 9 31
4703002222
58
10 11
Set 7.1 once
Set 7.5
once
Set 7.2
3 times
Set 7.6
once
Set 7.3
once
Set 7.7
once
Set 7.4
once
Set 7.8
once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
b= 48
=
A2 1
Design R183:
y =
m
48,
8,
r = 7,
n = 6,
λ₁
=
k = 7,
0,
=
288/7
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 7/48, H= 90/7, A
E, .86, E, .88, E = .87
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 41
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups:
(8,6)
223
\n--- PAGE 00000236 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs – -
Continued
Design R186: v= 12, r = 8,
k = 8,
m= 6,
n = 2,
A₁
=
6,
b = 12
A2 5
Design R188: v= 21,
r = 8,
k = 8,
b = 21
=
m= 3,
n = 7,
λ₂
=
7,
A₂ = 1
c₁ = 24/31, c2
=
465/8
c₁ = 8/9,
=
c₂ -8/7, H= 21/2, A
=
1323/64
ΕΙ
304/465, H= 61/4, A =
= .97, E₂ = .95, E = .95
Solution 1: John (1966) adapted; nonunique;
nonresolvable
Complement: Design R109, Solution 1
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (6,2)
Plan:
456
12
8
9 10
11
9 10 11
12
10 11 12
1
7
11 12
1
2
8
9
12 1
1
9
10
10
11
11
12
12
1
34567QQ212
23
POA2I234567∞
CARA234567
678901212345
34567890
23456789
21234norag
E= .98, E₂ = .77, E = .82
Solution:
2
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 13
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (3,7)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 21, the single
initial block:
1 3 6 9 12 15 18 21
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
5
Design R189: v= 24,
m= 4,
r = 8,
k
=
8,
b
=
n = 6,
λ₁
=
4,
A2
=
24
2
7
8
c, = 8/15, c2
=
9
10
8
10
11
Groups: (4,6)
2/9, H= 27/2, A = 45
E= .94, E₂ = .90, E = .91
Complement: Not listed, r = 16
Plan: Cyclically develop the six initial blocks
5 9 13 17 21 2 3 4
Solution 2:
Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design R109, Solution 2
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (6,2)
Plan:
4
21978632OTS I
11
127
1
10
10
0259348
9
10
6
8
11
12
11 6
1
7
25936IT4
CH204817235
9
11
6
856022-7413
524
5
2
4
1
11
6453H
786
11
8 1
6 7
9
82029
12
10
11
3202
231547128690
1 21 9 13
17 6 7 8
17 1 5
21
13
10 11 12
21 17 1
5
9 14 15 16
9
13 21
1
5 18 19 20
13
5 17 9 1 22 23 24
using cycles of length 4 and cycling
within the six subsets of treatments 1-4,
5-8, 9-12, 13-16, 17-20, and 21-24. Each
position within blocks contains a
replication.
=
5
1
14
= = 2
Design R190: v= 48, r = 8,
k = 8,
λ,
=
4,
b= 48
λ2 1
=
C 1
E,
=
=
m 12, n = 4,
8/15, c₂ = 1/15, H= 27/2, A = 45
.94, E₂ = .88, E = .89
Solution:
2
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r =40
Dual: Self dual, Hoffman (1963)
Groups: (12,4)
Design R187: v= 14,
c₁ = 8/9,
E,
.98,
=
m= 2,
r = 8,
n = 7,
k = 8,
b
λ₁
=
7, λ2
C 2 -8/21, H= 91/8, ▲ = 441/16
E₂ = .84, E= .90
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (2,7)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 14, the single
initial block:
1 2 3 5 7 9 11 13
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
(Plan continued on next page)
224
\n--- PAGE 00000237 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs - Continued
Plan:
1
13 25
37
5
6
7
8
1
13 25
37
17
18
19 20
1
13 25
37
29
30
31
32
1
13 25
37
41
42
43 44
Design R192: v= 64,
C 1
=
2/9, C2
=
m= 8,
2 14 26
38
5
18
31
44
2
2 14 26
38
6
17
32 43
2
14 26
38
7 20
29 42
Solution:
Resolvable
2
14 26
38
8 19
30 41
3
15 27 39
5
20
30 43
3
15 27 39
8
17
31 42
3
15 27 39
6
19
29 44
3 15 27 39
4 16 28 40
4 16 28 40
4 16 28 40
7 18 32 41
r = 10, k = 8,
n = 8, λ₁ 2, A2
-
29/288, H= 17, A = 72
E= .90, E₂ = .89, E= .89
Complement: Not listed, r = 70
Dual: Irregular
Groups: (8,8)
Plan: To construct, use
b= 80
1
88838
5
19 32 42
7 17 30 44
Set 8.1
once
Set 8.6
once
8
18 29
43
4 16 28
5 17 29
40
41
6 20
31
41
Set 8.2 twice
Set 8.7
once
9
10 11
12
5 17 29 41
21
22 23
24
Set 8.3
once
Set 8.8
once
5 17 29 41
33
34
35 36
5 17 29 41
45 46 47 48
Set 8.4
once
Set 8.9
once
6 18 30 42
9
22 35 48
6 18 30 42
10
21 36 47
Set 8.5
6 18 30 42
11 24 33 46
6 18 30 42
12
23 34 45
once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
7 19 31 43
9
24 34 47
7 19 31
43
12 21
35 46
7 19 31
43
10
23
33 48
Design R193: v= 12,
m= 3,
r = 9,
n = 4,
k = 9,
λ₁ 8,
b = 12
=
2
= 6
7 19 31
43
11
22
36 45
8 20 32
44
9
23 36 46
c₁ =
8 20 32
44
11 21 34 48
8 20 32 44
8 20 32 44
12
22
33 47
10
24 35 45
9 21
33 45
1 2 3
4
9 21
33 45
13
14 15 16
9 21
33 45
25
26 27 28
9 21
33 45
37
38 39 40
10 22
34 46 1
14 27 40
9/10,
=
C 2 · 27/40, H= 152/9, ▲ = 640/9
E.99, E₂ = .96, E = .97
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (3,4)
10 22 34 46
2
13 28 39
Plan:
10 22 34 46
3
16 25 38
1
10 22
34 46
4
15 26 37
2
11 23 35 47
1
16 26 39
3
11 23
35 47
4
13 27
38
4
11 23
35 47
2
15 25 40
11 23
12 24
12 24 36 48
12 24 36 48
12 24 36 48
35 47
3 14 28 37
36 48
1 15 28 38
3 13 26 40
4 14 25 39
2 16 27 37
9
10 11
Design R191: v= 63,
r = 8, k
m= 9, n = 7, λ₁
=
8,
b= = 63
11 12
12
23456TGART
45678
5678
8
9
10
8
11
9 12
7
10
1
8
11
9 12
1
23
1 4
234567
34567890
12123456789
878
6
9
10
11
12
10
11
2
12
10
2
345
21
3
4
5
901212345678
0121
21234nora
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
=
0,
λη 1
=
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 8/63, H= 119/8, A = 441/8
E,= .88, E,= .89, E = .89
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 55
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Groups:
Clatworthy (1971)
(9,7)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 63, the single
initial block:
1 6 8 14 38 48 49 52
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
Design R194: v= 15,
= 9/10, C2
C₁ =
m= 3,
r = 9,
n = 5,
k = 9,
A₁
b= 15
=
8, A2 4
=
=
=
9/25, H= 140/9, A 1600/27
E, .99, E₂ = .93, E = .94
=
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Design R168
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (3,5)
Plan:
Cyclically develop, modulo 15, the single
initial block:
1 2 4 5 7 8 11 13 14
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
225
\n--- PAGE 00000238 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs - Continued
Design R195: v= 16,
r = 9,
k = 9,
b = 16
m= 2,
n = 8,
λ₁
= 8,
2
=
2
Plan:
1
7
7
1
23
321
13
c₁ = 9/10, c₂ = -99/160, H= 112/9, A 2560/81
E, .99, E₂ = .83, E = .90
2
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (2,8)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 16, the single
initial block:
1 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
=
17 18
1 7
4
11
18
1
8237
23
14
4 5
14
10 11
8 14
13 3 9
15 6 10
17
1
7 13
9 15
5
12
16
7
13
3
4 15
9
12
17
2
14
3
9
15
5
10
18
8
9
14
15
11 16
Sota33826
616593
14
8
2
2 16
11
3
10
5
1 4 17
16
5
8
10
17
11
9
7
4
13
10
14
16
17
15
5
10
12
16
8
4
18
15
1
6 14 4
16
18
3 10 12
7
12 13
2
6
9
16
18
10
11
17
6
18
14
9
5
1
12
5
2
7
11
6 15
12 17
18
Design R196: v= 18, r =
m= 6,
9,
n = 3,
k = 9,
b = 18
18
8
λ₁
=
=
6,
2
Ci
=
9/13, C2
=
17 5 3 12 6 11
Remark: It is not known whether Solution 2 is
distinct from Solution 1.
13
6/13, H= 50/3, A = 208/3
E= .96, E₂= .94, E = .94
Solution 1:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Self complementary
Dual: Self dual, Hoffman (1963)
Groups: (6,3)
Design R197: v= 18,
m= 9,
n=
r = = 9,
2, λι
k = 9,
= 8,
b= 18
2
= 4
Plan:
3 16 10 11 12 15
9
17 18
5 3 9
15 4
18
6
16
17
Dual:
c₁ = 9/10, c₂ = 9/20, H= 152/9, A = 640/9
E.99, E₂ = .94, E = .94
Solution 1:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Self complementary
Self dual, Hoffman (1963)
11
2
58
3 9
15
12
6
10
Groups: (9,2)
14
10
16
12
17
5
6
8
2
18
14
5
11
4
12
16
Plan:
18
14
2
8
6
17
10
4 11
1
7
13
16
10
18 11
5
6
1
4
17 11 16 13
7
12
10
13
13
6 12 18
28
1 12 17 5 7 18
4
8
7 14
9
15
5
12
18
1
7
12
8 6 18
39
28
15
13
14
6
3
2
1
7
3126
8972315
2315648
1234
5
9
6459783
11
17
12 15
12
18 10 13
10
16
11 14
14
11
15
18
15 12 13 16
13
10 14 17
3
17 14
18
12
17
5 2 7 14
11
3
13
8
9
6
7
1
18
15
16 10
15
11 17 13
14 17 11
16
15
7
16
4
15
35437
3
13
9
14
14
16
1
7382
•་
58216
21830
8
9
9
4
8
2
16
13
17 11
15
10
11
17
12
15
2
8
3
6
10
11 12
18 10
13
3
9
1
4
12 10
16 11
14
1
13 14
11
14 15 12
15 13 10 14 17
15 18
5
13 16
6
Solution 2: Nonresolvable
Complement: Design R196, Solution 1; self
complementary
Dual: Self dual, Hoffman (1963)
1
17 18
18 16
16 17 14 18 12
15 16 10
13 17 11
9
7
72356 +
78312
2645978
5
9
Groups: (6,3)
Solution 2:
Adapted from a solution due to
Ikeda (1967); nonresolvable
Complement: Self complementary
Dual: Self dual, Hoffman (1963)
Groups: (9,2)
(Plan continued on next page)
226
\n--- PAGE 00000239 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs -
– Continued
Plan:
1
10
14
1
10
20
11 3
2 11
18
2
1
10
5
339
4
12
5
Plan:
1
3 25
12
9
18
11
1
10
17
16
8
17
12
7
16
8
17
15
1 10
28730
4
13
3
21 13 12 7
14
17
5
1
2
5
14
23
2
7
10
2
20
1
52003
11 15 22
6
10 13
55320
3
12
22
23
24
2
3 4
26
19 17 24
25
5 26 6 12 17 20
10 11 12 19
21 18 25
776228
16 21
222223
13
9
15
6
18
7
1
10
4
26
24
18
1
2 7
8 10 17
4
15
6
13
9
10
16
1
18
19
22 11
2
11
5
14
6
16
7
15
1
25
26
21 19
10
7
14
16
2
11
5
6
15
13
14
16 18 20
798
23
2
16
8
13
17 14
9
2
11
9
2
24
12
12
6
18
3
8
15
11
2
9
18
11
23 13
1
17
6
3
9
6
3
9
15
12
2
18
17
11
6
9
3
15
24
26
20
21
10
8
17
16
7
13
4
9
11
2
10
14
17 22
20
13
25
3
11
4 13 8
17
18
2
16
7
14
12
26
23 19
8
3
15
18
243
13557
5
4
18
7
12
14
9
16
7 9
16
14
13
18
5 4
17
6
13
12 4 14
5 15
6386
16 5
22 24 14
10
26
4
4
13
20 14
15
21
23 11
24
15
12 22
13
6
4 1
11
6
8
25
26
16
18 4 20
588
12
7
4
21
16
23
26
Remark: It is not known whether Solution 2 is
distinct from Solution 1.
9
10
19
4
18
25
15 13
7
4 6
9
8
3 5 14
20
25
8
5
24 19 23
Design R198: v= 24,
r = 9,
m= 3, n = 8,
k = 9,
b= 24
8
16
17
10
9 11 12
λ₁
= 8,
2
= 1
21
18
10 11 12 22
15
17
640/27
Nonresolvable
Plan:
c, 9/10, c₂ = -117/80, H= 104/9, A =
E= .99, E₂ = .76, E = .82
Solution:
Complement: Not listed, r = 15
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (3,8)
Cyclically develop, modulo 24, the single
initial block:
1 2 4 7 10 13 16 19 22
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
Design R199: v= 26, r = 9,
m= 13, n = 2,
k = 9,
λι 0,
=
b = 26
A2 = 3
=
208/3
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 9/26, H= 50/3, A
E= .89, E₂ = .92, E = .92
Solution:
2
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 17
Dual:
Self dual
Groups: (13,2)
Ci
E,
=
Solution:
Complement: Not listed, r
= 19
Dual: Self dual, Hoffman (1963)
Groups: (4,7)
Plan: Cyclically develop the seven initial
blocks
5 9 13 17 21 25
135
26
3
4
25
1
9
17 21
7 8
21 25 1
5 13
17 10 11 12
17 21 25
1
5
9 14 15 16
9 13 21 25 1
5 18 19 20
13
5 17 9 25
1 22 23 24
17
19 15
232
7
7 16 25 24 14
20 21 18 1
93405622
1
7
15
14
16
225460
Design R200: v= 28,
MF 4,
r = 9,
n = 7,
k = 9,
λ₁ = 5,
b= 28
λ₂ 2
=
45/77, c₂ = 72/539, H= 133/9, A
.95, E₂ = .90, E = .91
=
4312/81
Nonresolvable
1 17 5 21 9 13 26 27 28
using cycles of length 4 and cycling
within the 7 subsets of treatments 1-4,
5-8, 9-12, 13-16, 17-20, 21-24, and 25-28.
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
Design R201: v= 78, r = 9,
k = 9,
b= 78
m= 13, n = 6,
λ₁
=
0, A2
= 1
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 3/26, H= 50/3, A = 208/3
E, .89, E₂ = .90, E = .90
Solution:
2
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 69
Dual: Self dual, Hoffman (1963)
Groups: (13,6)
Plan: See Sprott (1959) for a geometrical method
for construction of this 'large' design.
227
\n--- PAGE 00000240 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs - Continued
Design R202: v= 80,
r = 9,
m= 10, n= 8,
k = 9,
b= 80
λι
= 0,
A2
= 1
c₁ = 0, c₂ = 9/80, H= 152/9, A = 640/9
E,
=
.89, E, .90, E = .90
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 71
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (10,8)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 80, the single
initial block:
1 3 6 10 22 44 57 58 75
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
Design R203: v= 12, r = 10, k = 10,
m= 4,
n = 3, A₁ 9,
10/11,
Plan:
1234
2
3
4
5
456789
8
7890
6749
9 10 11 12
10 11 12 13
11 12 13
10 12 13 14
14
10 11 13
14 1
6
11 12 14 8
7
10 12 13 8 9
8
11 13 14
9
12 14
10 13
11 14
1
123
1234
2
234567-
123456
2345
2 3
3
4
5
6
7
6712
6
234567890
10
11
489OESOT-234
5
6
7
1
10
11
14
1
2 10
12
11234567∞TOL23
34123456789 KEE
8
9
10
Design R206: v=
b= 12
18, r =
m= 2,
n=
9,
=
10, k = 10, b= 18
λι 9, λε 2
=
2 = 8
=
C 2 215/264, H= 39/2, A = 2376/25
E, .99, E, .98, E = .98
2
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (4,3)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 12, the single
initial block:
1 2 3 4 6 7 8 10 11 12
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
Design R204: v= 14, r = 10, k:
=
CI 10/11, c₂ = -85/99, H= 27/2, A = 891/25
E= .99, E₂ = .83, E= .90
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (2,9)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 18, the single
initial block:
1 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
=
m= 2, n = 7,
λ₁ = 8,
10,
2
b= 14
Design R207: v= 27, r = 10,
m= 3, n = 9, λ₁
k = 10,
=
b = 27
=
9, λ2 1
=
6
=
2673/100
c, 40/49, c₂ = 205/343, H= 91/5, ▲ = 2058/25
E= .98, E,= .96, E = .97
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: A disconnected design
Dual: Truly self dual, Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (2,7)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 14, the single
initial block:
1 2 3 4 6 7 8 10 12 14
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
=
c, = 10/11,
-530/297, H= 63/5, A
C 2
E.99, E₂ = .76, E = .82
Solution:
2
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 17
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Groups:
Clatworthy (1971)
(3,9)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 27, the single
initial block:
1 2 4 7 10 13 16 19 22 25
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
Design R205: v= 14,
r = 10, k = 10, b
n = 2, A₁
m= 7,
= 14
=
6, λ2
=
= 7
c₁ =
5/8, C 2
=
=
565/784, H= 97/5, ▲ = 2352/25
E= .96, E, .97, E = .97
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Design R112
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Groups: (7,2)
228
\n--- PAGE 00000241 ---\nTABLE IX. Regular group divisible designs - Continued
Design R208: v= 32, r = 10,
k=
m= 4,
n = 8,
λ₁
10, b= 32
6, λ2 = 2
-
5/8, C2
==
5/128, H= 16, A = 1536/25
E= .96, E₂ = .90, E = .92
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Groups: (4,8)
===== 22
Plan: Cyclically develop the eight initial
Design R209: v= 75, r = 10,
m= 15, n= 5, λι
k = 10,
=
b= 75
5, A₂ = 1
c₁ = 10/19,
C 2
=
2/95, H= 17, ▲ =
=
285/4
4
E, .95, E,= .90, E = .90
Solution:
2
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 65
Dual: Self dual, Hoffman (1963)
Groups: (15,5)
Plan: For the method of constructing a plan for
this design see Freeman (1957), page 485,
case
n = 5 of the general construction
procedure.
blocks
5 9 13
17 21
25 29
29 1 9 13 17
21
25
25 29 21 5
13
17
1 10
371
26
8
11
12
21 25 29 1
5
9
17 14
15 16
13 21
25 29
1
5
9 18
19 20
9 13
17
25
29
1
5
22
23 24
17
5
1 21 9
29
13 26 27 28
1 17 5 9 25 13 21 30 31 32
using cycles of length 4 and cycling
within the 8 subsets of treatments 1-4,
5-8, 9-12, 13-16, 17–20, 21-24, and 25-
28.
Each position within blocks contains
a replication.
229
\n--- PAGE 00000242 ---\nReference V
number
TABLE X. Partially balanced designs based on triangular association schemes: parameters and auxiliary information
of
Efficiencies
Number
01
λι
N=W Unique
solution
E₁
E,
E
solutions
given
Complementary
design
Dual designs
Literature sources
T1
T2
T3
៨:៩៩៨។
10
10
99
10
T4
10 9
33S9
2
T5
15 8 2 60
T6
15
T7
21 10 2
T8
21 10 2 105
22222222
30 6 3
2 15
2 30
2 45
6666
33
1
10
0
3
0 2
3
0 3
2 45
8 6
105
10 10 1
10 10
0123010
56
48
.53
60 Yes
1
NL, r=24
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
42 .56 .45
30 Yes
1
NL, r=12
42 .56 .45
60 Yes
1
NL, r=24
A D(3), Shrikhande (1965).
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
.42
.56 .45
90 Yes
1
NL, r=36
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
.54 47 .50
120 Yes
1
NL, r=52
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
.47
.54 .50
90 Yes
1
NL, r=39
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
.53
.47 .49
210 Yes
1
NL, r=95
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
0 1
48
53 .50
210 Yes
1
NL, r=95
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
Sol. 1: T71
Sol. 1: TSD.
T9
10
310
3 3 10 6 3 1
0
.74 .63
.70
30 No
2
Sol. 1
Sol. 2: T71
Sol. 2
Sol. 2: TSD.
T10
10 6 3 20 6
3 20.74 .63
.70
60 No
3 NL, r=14
T11
10 9 3 30
6
3 3 0.74 .63 .70
90 No
2 NL, r=21
T12
10 6 3 20
6 3 1
T13
10 9 3 30
6
3
2 .71
1 4 .67
.73
.77
.78
.71
21
60 No
90 ?
2 NL, r=14
Sol. 2: Irregular.
1 NL, r=21
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
T14
15
4
3
20
1
0 .71 .63 .67 60 ?
1 NL, r=16
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
T15
15
T16
15
55
83
33
3 40
6
2
3 3 15
20
.71
0 1 .63
18
.63
.67
.71
.66
600
120 ?
1
NL, r=32
45
Yes
1
NL, r=12
T17
15
6
3 30
0 2
.63
.71 .66
T18
T19
15
55
15 10
3
50
8
6
-
2 .70 .73
.71
9
T20
21
5
3
T21
T22
21 10
3
T23
T24
36
T25
45 8
3333333
45
6
3 .63 .71 .66
35
10 10
1
0 .70 .62 .66
21 10 3 70 10 10 2
O
.70 62 .66
88 8
90 Yes
1 NL, r=24
Sol. 1: Irregular.
150 No
2
NL, r=40
Sol. 2: Irregular.
135 Yes
1
NL, r=36
105 ?
1
NL, r=30
210 ?
1
NL, r=60
70
10 10
65
.70
.67
210 ?
1
NL, r=60
28 6 3 56 12 15 1
-
69
62
3 84 14 21
62
33
.65
168 ?
1
NL, r=50
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
.65 252 ?
1
NL, r=77
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
120 16
28
360 ?
1
NL, r=112
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
Sol. 1: a D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 2: a D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 3: not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
Sol. 1: a D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 2: a D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 1: Irregular.
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
TSD.
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Not a D(x), x=1,2.
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
irregular.
Clatworthy (1955) [Masuyama (1965)].
Clatworthy (1955) [Masuyama (1965)].
Clatworthy (1955).
Clatworthy (1955).
Clatworthy (1955) [Masuyama (1965)].
Clatworthy (1955) [Masuyama (1965)].
Clatworthy (1955).
Clatworthy (1955).
BCS (1954) [Masuyama (1965)].
Clatworthy, new.
BCS (1954).
Clatworthy, new.
Masuyama (1965).
BCS (1954).
Clatworthy new.
BCS (1954).
Masuyama (1965).
Liu and Chang (1964) [Chang, Liu and
Liu (1965), Masuyama (1965)).
BCS (1954) [Masuyama (1965) Ikeda
(1967)].
BCS (1954).
BCS (1954) [Seiden (1961), Ray-Chaud-
huri (1962), Masuyama (1965)].
BCS (1954).
BCS (1954).
Masuyama (1965).
Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956) [Masuyama (1965)].
Clatworthy (1956).
Chang, Liu and Liu (1965).
Clatworthy (1956) [Masuyama (1965)].
Clatworthy (1956) [Masuyama (1965)].
Clatworthy (1956).

†T26
55 9 3
165 18
36
63
495 ?
1
NL, r=156
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
†T27
66 10
3 220 20
45
63
64
660 ?
1 NL, r=210
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956).
T28
10 2
4 5 6
3
0
.83
.71
.79
20 Yes
1 T57
The BIB design (5, 10, 4, 2, 1), Roy and BCS (1954) [Masuyama (1965)].
Laha (1956).
See footnote at end of table.
230
\n--- PAGE 00000243 ---\nT29
10
T30
10
T31
10
999
10
15
20
T32
10 10
25
S
T33
T34
10
T35
10
999
10 4
10
6
8
20
10
25
16
23451
3333333
666
.83
.71
.79
40 Yes
1 T58
$9.
BCS (1954).
0
83 .71 .79
60 Yes
1 T59
$35.
BCS (1954).
83
.71
.79
80 Yes
1
NL, r=12
$66.
BCS (1954).
0
83
.71 .79
100 Yes
1
NL, r=15
$112.
BCS (1954).
2 .80
.87 .82
40 Yes
1
T60
TSD.
3
34
2
22
84
.81 .83
80 ?
1
NL, r=12
Irregular.
2 .84 .79
.83
100 ?
1
NL, r=15
Irregular.
T36
10
T37
10
10
20
20 6 3
4 25 6 3
33
2
3
23
.80
.82
888
.87
.85
18
.82
.83
883
80 ?
1
NL, r=12
100
?
1
NL, r=15
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Irregular.
T38
151
8
30 8 6 3
0 .80
.70
.76 120 Yes
1 NL, r=22
T39
28
T40
28 10
4 70
†T41
36 7
3285
56
63
221
15
14 21
157
15 2
0 .78 .70
.73
224 ?
NL, r=48
0
2
.74 .78
.76
280 ?
1
NL, r=60
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
Irregular.
0
1
.74 .77
.76
252 ?
1
NL, r=56
+T42
91
+T43
136
T44
10
03006
8
182
10
93
5
340
6
30
226
24 66
0
.76
105
1
0 .76
96
.71 .72
728 Yes
1
NL, r=174
.72
.72
1360 Yes
1
NL, r=330
3
1
2
.86
.92
.88
30 Yes
1
TSC
Sol. 1: SC
Sol. 1: Irregular.
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
A D(3), Shrikhande (1965).
BCS (1954) [Masuyama (1965)].
Chang, Liu and Liu (1965).
Chang, Liu and Liu (1965),
Masuyama (1965).
BCS (1954).
Chang, Liu and Liu (1965),
Masuyama (1965).
Chang, Liu and Liu (1965).
[Masuyama (1965)].
Chang, Liu and Liu (1965).
Chang, Liu and Liu (1965).
Ray-Chaudhuri (1965),
Shrikhande (1965).
Chang, Liu and Liu (1965).
Chang, Liu and Liu (1965).
The BIB design (6,10,5,3,2) Roy and Laha BCS (1954) [Masuyama (1965)].
(1956).
Chang, Liu and Liu (1965).
T45
10
6 5 12 6 3
3
2 .90 .86
.89
60 No
2
Sol. 2: SC
Sol. 2: Irregular.
T46
10 6
T47
10 9
69
T48
15
2
555
12
18
T49
15
T50
15
T51
15 8
T52
15 10
T53
21 10
55555
46
12
18
24
30
8
5 42
e
10 10
23-
336
286
23454
66669
.86
6
.86
0
888888
.92
.92
.86 .75 .81
2235
888888
60 Yes
TSC
$28.
90 Yes
1 TSC
$86.
Complement of Design T45, Sol. 1.
BCS (1954).
BCS (1954).
30 Yes
1 T92
The BIB design (6,15,5,2,1) Roy and Laha BCS (1954) [Masuyama (1965)].
(1956).
0
.86 .75 .81
60 Yes
1 T93
$11.
.86 .75 .81
90 Yes
1
NL, r=12
$38.
0
.86
.75 .81
120 Yes
1
NL, r=16
$69.
BCS (1965).
Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956).
0 86 .75
.81
150 Yes
1
NL, r=20
$114.
Clatworthy (1956).
0 .84 .75
.79
210 Yes
1
NL, r=32
Not a D(x), x=1,2,3,4.
Chang, Liu and Liu (1965) [Masuyama
(1965)).
T54
+T55
ஜசு
45
66
10
+T56
231 10
T57
10
7903
555 6
165823
16
28
20
៦៨
45
40 190
1
6 5
6 3
0272
1 .79 .82
.81
315 ?
1❘ NL, r=56
PG10.
0 81 .75
.77
660 Yes
1 NL, r=122
0 80 .77 .78
2310 Yes
1❘ NL, r=452
1
.94 .88
.92
30 Yes
1 T28
Shrikhande (1965).
Chang, Liu and Liu (1965).
Chang, Liu and Liu (1965).
The BIB design (5, 10, 6, 3, 3) Roy and BCS (1954) [Masuyama (1965)].
Laha (1956).
T58
10
6
T59
10
9
T60
10 6
6966
T61
15
6
666 6
10
15
10
15
8
6968
3336
4633
2341
.94 .88 .92 60 Yes
1 T29
$ 26.
94
.88 .92
92
.94
.92
ទ ទ
90 Yes
1 T30
S 85.
BCS (1954).
BCS (1954).
60 Yes
1 T33
TSD.
1 .91
.85 .88 90 ?
1 T84
TSD.
BCS (1954).
Liu (1963) [Liu and Chang (1964); Chang
Liu and Liu (1965), Masuyama (1965)
Ikeda (1967)], Roy-Chaudhuri (1962)..
See footnote at end of table.
231
\n--- PAGE 00000244 ---\nTABLE X. Partially balanced designs based on triangular association schemes: parameters and auxiliary information-Continued
Reference ν
k
01
number
25
k
λ
Number
N=vr Unique
solution
E₂ E
of
solutions
given
Complementary
design
Efficiencies
E₁
5
Dual designs
Literature sources
T62
15 4 6 10 8 6 1 2.87.91
.89 60 No
(Sol. i:
3T83, Sol. i,
i=1, 2, 3
(Sol. 1: The B21 solution of Nandi (1946a)
for the BIB design (10, 15, 6, 4, 2), Roy
and Laha (1956).
BCS (1954) [Masuyama (1965)).
Sol. 2: The a (1, 1) solution of Nandi Clatworthy, new.
α
(1946a) for the BIB design (10, 15, 6, 4,
2), Roy and Laha (1956).
Sol. 3: The a3 solution of Nandi (1946a) Clatworthy, new.
for the BIB design (10, 15, 6, 4, 2) Roy
and Laha (1956).
T63
T64
T65
T66
T67
T68
៩៩៩១៩ ៩៩៩
15 10
15
21
T69
T70
22222
21
21
21
21 10
21 10
282
532
66666
4 6
6
6
999
25
20
227
12233
10 10
14 10 10
28
35 10 10
22222
10 10
10
10
35 10 10
421
669
2345
99999
4
.87
0
.87
888
3 .90 .88
.91
85
.89
.89
.78 .82
88%
150 No
3
NL, r=15
Sol. 1, 2, 3: Irregular.
120 No
3
NL, r=12
Sol. i: S67, Sol. i, i=1, 2, 3.
Chang, Liu,and Liu (1965).
Clatworthy (1956).
42 Yes
1
NL, k=15
The BIB design (7, 21, 6, 2, 1), Roy and BCS (1954) [Masuyama (1965)].
Laha (1956).
.87 .78 .82
84 Yes
1
NL, k=15
$13.
Clatworthy (1956).
.87 .78 .82
126 Yes
1
NL, k=15
$42.
Clatworthy (1956).
.88 .78 .82 168 Yes
1
NL, r=20
$73.
Clatworthy (1956).
0
.87 .78 .82 210 Yes
1
NL, r=25
$116.
Clatworthy (1956).
1
.89 .83 .86 210 ?
1
NL, r=25
a D(3), Speckman (1970).
Chang, Liu and Liu (1965),
[Masuyama (1965)].
Sol. 1: T9,
Sol. 1: TSD.
BCS (1954).
T71
10 7 7 10
6 3 5
.96
.94 .95
70 No
2
Sol. 1.
Sol. 2: T9,
Sol. 2: TSD.
Clatworthy, new.
Sol. 2.
T72
28
2
7
12 15
1
--
.89
.80
.84
56 ?
1 NL, k=21
The BIB design (8, 28, 7, 2, 1), Roy and BCS (1954) [Masuyama (1965)].
Laha (1956).
T73
28
T74
28
T75
28
T76
28
2222
10
7777
46
16
24
32
40
1555
2222
15
.89
.80 .84
112 ?
NL, r=12
$14.
15
.89 80
.84
168 ?
1
NL, r=18
S43.
15
4
.89 80
.84
224 ?
1
NL, r=24
$75.
15
0
.89
.80
.84
280 ?
1
NL, r=30
S117.
Sol. 1: SD, Hoffman (1963).
177
28
7
7
28
12 15 1
2
.88
.89
.89
196 ?
3 NL, r=21
Sol. 2: SD, Hoffman (1963).
Sol. 3: SD, Hoffman (1963).
Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956).
Chang, Liu and Liu (1965).
Seiden (1963).
Seiden (1963).
T78
36
2
9
14 21 1 0
.90
.82
.85
72 Yes
1 NL, k=28
The BIB design (9, 36, 8, 2, 1) Roy and BCS (1954) [Masuyama (1965)).
Laha (1956).
T79
36
T80
36
T81
36
T82
36 10
4689
18
14
་་
27 14 21 3
36 14 21 4
45 14 21
2222
21
90
.82
.90
.82
.90
5
0
.90
ន ន ន ន
.85
.85
.82
.85
.82
.85
T83
15
6
9
10
B
3
.94
96
.96
.95
95
ឌ ឌឌឌ
144 Yes
1
NL, r=14
$15.
216 Yes
1
NL,r=21
$45.
288 Yes
1
NL, r=28
$77.
360 Yes
1
NL, r=35
$120
Sol. i: T62,
90 No
3 Sol. i,
i=1, 2, 3
Sol. 1, 2, 3: the three nonisomorphic
solutions for the BIB design (10, 15, 9,
6,5), Roy and Laha (1956).
Sol. 2,3: Clatworthy (new).
Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy1 (956).
Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 1: BCS (1954).
232
\n--- PAGE 00000245 ---\nTSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy | Liu (1963) [Chang, Liu and Liu (1965),
(1971).
Masuyama (1965)].
The BIB design (28, 36, 9, 7, 2), Roy and BCS (1954).
Laha (1956).
The BIB design (10, 45, 9, 2, 1), Roy and BCS (1954) [Masuyama (1965)].
T84
15
15
∞
6
.96
.94
.95
135 ?
1 T61
T85
36
7
ས
9
28
143
21 1
2 .90 .92
.91 252 ?
1 NL, r=21
T86
45
155
2
9 10 16 28 1 0 .91 .83
.86
90 Yes
1 NL, k=36
Laha (1956).
T87
T88
T89
T90
†T91
T92
15
46
444445
20 16 28
30
16
40 16
666
28
10 9 50
16 28
9 45
16 28
22222
2
28 3
234
0 .91
.83 .86
1
NL, r=16
$16.
0 .91 .83 .86
1
NL, r=24
$47.
0
.91 .83 .86
1
NL, r=32
$78.
4 10
6
8
6 3
13
5
022
.91
.83
.86
1
NL, r=40
$122.
.90
.91 .91 405 ?
1 NL, r=36
SD, Hoffman (1963).
.97 .95 .96
60 Yes
1 T48
Laha (1956).
T93
T94
1125
8 10
12
21
8 6 6
10 10 21 10 10 6
69 6
.97 .95
3
T95
21
21 10
10 10 21 10 10
5
35
55
55
35
99
2170
120 Yes
1
T49
$58.
1
NL, r-11
SD, Hoffman (1963).
909
210 ?
1 NL, r=11
SD, Hoffman (1963).
T96
55
55
T97
T98
T99
T100
55.10
2345
9999
4680
55555
2 10 11 18
36
1
0 .92
10 22 18 36
10 33 18 36
10 44 18 36
10 55 18
+ Plan not verified by computer.
36
2
2345
DO
0
.92
0 .92
.92
0 .92
ឌ ឌ ឌ ឌ
Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy, new.
The BIB design (6, 15, 10, 4, 6), Roy and BCS (1954).
The BIB design (11, 55, 10, 2, 1) Roy and
Laha (1956).
BCS (1954).
Liu (1963), [Liu and Chang (1964),
Chang, Liu and Liu (1965)). Masuyama
(1965).
Liu (1963), [Liu and Chang (1964),
Chang, Liu and Liu (1965)]. Masuyama
(1965).
BCS (1954) [Masuyama (1965)].
.87
110 Yes
1 NL, k=45
3 3 3 3
8888
1 NL, r=18
$17.
1 NL, r=27
$48.
1 NL, r=36
$79.
1 NL, r=45
S123.
Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956).
233
\n--- PAGE 00000246 ---\nTABLE XI.
Partially balanced designs based on triangular association schemes
-2/5, C₂ =
C₁ =
6,
{ ³ 23/]
1/5, H = 21/2, A = 45/2
Design T1:
C₁ =
1/5,
C 2
v = 10,
ni
=
6,
³
r =
n2
=
6,
3, λι
k
=
b =
2,
30
=
1, λη
=
0
P.-[3] P.-[42]
32
Pi
P,=
-1/10, H= 13/2, ▲ = 10
E,= .56, E₂ = .48, E = .53
2
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 24
Dual: Not a D(x), x =
Association Scheme:
Plan:
= 1, 2
T(5)
Design T4:
V = 10,
r =
9,
k = 2,
b = 45
ni
=
3,
n₂ =
λι
= 0, A2
3
3
P
P₂ =
·= [ + 2]
4
.42, E,
=
43780
12569
39760
12456
24970
13568
10
8
6 10
9 10
12345
65869
1234
54699
12387
Design T2:
10
V =
n₁ =
Р
=
-2/5, c₂ =
E, 42, E,
=
-
4 10
7
10,
6,
3
r =
n2
=
21
3,
7
3 10
3, λι
1/5, H= 7/2, A
.56, E = .45
k
8690
= 2,
=
0, λη
4
b = 15
-
P₁ = [ + 2]
=
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: A D(3), Shrikhande (1965)
Association Scheme:
Plan:
T(5)
6
90508
2 10
12347
879234569-
5 10
10 1
1236784950
2
5/2
1
Design T3:
C₁ =
v =
ni
=
10,
6,
= 2,
k
r = 6,
3, A, 0, λη
n2
3 2
=
==
b
4 2
=
P.-] P.-[ ]
Р
-2/5, c₂ =
E,= .42, E,
=
1
2
1/5, H= 7, A = 10
.56, E = .45
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 24
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Association Scheme:
T(5)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of T2.
=
30
2
E,
=
.56, E = .45
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 36
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Association Scheme: T(5)
Plan: Repeat the plan of T2 three times.
Design T5:
c₁ =
=
2/15,
V =
15,
=
r =
8,
k =
=
n 8, n =3
6,
1
4
2
2.
b =
60
=
1, λε
λι
4
P.3]-[1]
C 2
=
=
E, .54, E,
-2/15, H= 8, ▲
.47, E = .50
=
P₂ = [ ¹ ¦]
Р
= 15
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r 52
Dual: Not a D(x), x =
Association Scheme: T(6)
78966
1, 2
333555
14
34444
14
80
Plan:
1
6
1
6
14 10
11 13
1
6
12 11
1
10
14 12
11
11
15
12
6
12
15
5 15
3 10
13
14
7
4
11
15
13
12 5
14
15
7 10
3
7
13
8 11
8
14
10
11
10
10
2120
9003
13
5
11
13
15
14
15
234511-13252226
67892420 22
9435
45354
4
=
45/4
897373∞+9
-89748595
Design T6:
с
=
1
v =
n₁ =
Р
15,
P₁ =
=
-2/15, C₂
8,
n
= Į
6,
k
=
2,
=
6, λι 0,
4 3
303
=
b = 45
=
P₂ = [ 4 ]
2
1
2/15, H= 7, A
E,= .47, E, .54, E = .50
2
=
=
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r 39
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Association Scheme:
T(6)
(Plan continued on next page)
234
\n--- PAGE 00000247 ---\nTABLE XI. Partially balanced designs based on triangular association schemes - Continued
333024
356
Plan:
1
10
11
6
13
1
11
12
6
15
1
12
15
14
13
1
4 10
12
7
14
4 12
15
7
15
14
7
11
2
4
8
10
4
8
4
12
6
10
7
11
9
8
9
10
5
10
11
13
55
14
46795SSOIR
1345222609
2278-333
48093512
Design T8:
-4/63,
C₁ =
.48, E,
E,
=
Solution:
v =
n =
C 2
1
P
=
21,
10, n
r = 10, k
10, A₁
5 4
ย
=
P
=
2,
b
=
=
2/21, H = 23/2, ▲ =
.52, E = .50
Unique; nonresolvable
=
= 95
1, 2
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Not a D(x), x =
Association Scheme: T(7)
0,
λε
4
= 105
=
[ + 9]
63/2
1
Plan: 1 12
3 19
6 10
10 13
13
1 13
3 20
6
12
10 15
1 14
3 21
6 13
10 16
1 15
4
7
6
14
10 18
Design T7:
CI
=
2/21,
V =
n₁ =
P
21,
10, n
5
r = 10,
10, X,
=
k = 2,
1, λ
4
=
[
P₂ = [
=
Cz -1/7, H= 19/2, A
E,= .52, E₂ = .47, E = .49
2
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 95
Dual: Not a D(x), x =
Association Scheme: T(7)
= 21
b
=
=
93
105
0
1 16
4 8
6
16
10 20
1 17
4 10
6 17
11 12
1 18
4 11
6 19
11 13
1 19
4 12
7 16
11 14
1
20
4 14
7 17
11 16
1 21
4 15
7 18
11 17
2 8
4 17
7 19
11 19
2 9
4 18
7 20
12 19
2
10
4 21
7 21
12 20
2 11
5
7
8
13
12 21
1, 2
2 16
5 8
8 14
13 17
2 17
5
9
8
15
13 18
2 18
5
11
8 19
13 21
Plan:
1
1
2 19
5 12
8 20
14 16
1
2345
4
4
4 13
1
16
7
9
10
12
13
14
2
4
5
6
3
3 12
333
IIIII34SO22225333∞267 ∞
CE2222723
19
8 1
20
5
17
5 19
1
5
21
6
569342924
8
12
∞∞∞∞
10
17
8 11
18 12
8 12
13 14
224
2 20
5 13
8 21
14 18
2 21
5 15
9 12
14 20
3 7
5 16
9 14
15 16
8 16
13 19
3 9
5 18
9 15
15 17
17
8
13
20
3 10
5 20
9 17
15 19
18
8
15 13
3 11
6
7
9 18
16 21
9
8
16
13
3 13
6
8
9 21
17 20
10
9
14
19
3 14
6
9
10 12
18 19
16
9
14 17
3 15
19 9
15
14
9 20
14 21
10
5
9 11
18
15
V =
10,
ng
5 14
9 13
11
6
19 10
220
20
15
21
15
15
6
17 10
17
16
6
18
21 10
19
16
6
20
10
11
20
16
6
21
10
14
16 18
15
8
16
17
18
7890
12345777
7
11 18
17 21
7
11 20
18 17
7
15 11
19 17
7
21 11
18 20
12 13
12 14
10
26
12 15
16 12
2222
21
20
21 19
20 21
2002
18
Design T9:
=
n
1
=
P,
6,
r =
3 2
=
3,
3,
λι
P₂
=
CI 3/10, c₂ = -3/20, H= 13/3, A 40/9
E₁ = .74, E, .63, E = .70
=
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
nonresolvable
Complement: Design T71, Solution 1
Dual: Truly self dual
Association Scheme: T(5)
k =
3,
b
= 10
=
[ + 2]
=
1, λε 0
4
=
19
Plan:
1827953046
503928467
1
2985460703
10
10
(Plan continued on next page)
235
\n--- PAGE 00000248 ---\nTABLE XI. Partially balanced designs based on triangular association schemes - Continued
Solution 2: As given by Clatworthy (new);
nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design T71, Solution 2
Dual: Truly self dual
Association Scheme: T(5)
Plan: 1
3518264709
217543b9b∞
6
4
2
8
3
10
5
7
6
10
Design T10:
V =
n₁ =
Р
10,
6,
= J
n₂ =
3 2
1
6,
3, A,
P
k
2
=
=
=
C₁ = 3/10, c₂ = -3/20, H= 26/3, ▲ =
E,= .74, E, = .63, E = .70
2
Solution 1: Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: T(5)
=
14
3,
b = 20
2, λε = 0
4 2
[
2]
160/9
Plan: Duplicate the plan of T9, Solution 1.
Solution 2: Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 14
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: T(5)
Solution 1: Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: T(5)
= 21
Plan: Repeat the plan of T9, Solution 1 three
times.
Solution 2: Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: T(5)
= 21
Plan: Repeat the plan of T9, Solution 2 three
times.
Design T12:
c =
1
1/5, C
E,= .71, E,
Solution 1:
v = 10,
ni
=
r = 6,
6, n 3,
3 2
=
P, { ³ ? ]
λ
k = 3, b =
P:
= 2/5, H= 9, A
= 20
=
.77, E = .73
2
=
=
20
1, A, 2
4
=
[ + 2]
As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: T(5)
Plan: 10 1
1 10
= 14
4841800537
6409139456
9587653760
2509723166
058877322
21238494
10
9
Plan: Duplicate the plan of T9, Solution 2.
Solution 3: Adaptation of solution by Masuyama
(1965); nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 14
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Association Scheme:
Plan:
T(5)
Solution 2:
Adapted from a solution by Masuyama
(1965); nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 14
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: T(5)
5 6
Plan:
1 7
10
1
10
59432206
10
7736958488
5
896218S67
611803422
10
23743otona
95935-6∞
4 10
7
5
10
8
9
6514923840
5173208309
1762586Q74
10
3218077569
2145646807
14323a5a60
9
8
10
Design T11:
v =
n₁ =
10,
6,
r = 9, k =
3, λι
n₂ =
3
P₁ = ³ ?]
=
3,
b = 30
=
3, λε = 0
²]
P₁ = [ 42 ]
2
c, = 3/10, c₂ = -3/20, H= 13, A = 40
E,= .74, E, = .63, E = .70
236
\n--- PAGE 00000249 ---\nTABLE XI. Partially balanced designs based on triangular association schemes - Continued
Design T13:
=
3,
1,
4 2
=
v = 10,
n = = 6,
r = 9,
3,
k
=
b
=
λι
λε
30
4
2
·= [
32]
Design T15:
V =
=
15,
ni 8,
n
4
r =
=
8,
6, 入
​k = 3,
b = 40
=
2, λη
= 0
P,= [
4
=
-1/5, H= 32/3, A =
80/3
P₁ = + 3]
Р
=
3/100,
n2
=
P₁ = 3 2 ]
P,
P
C 2 87/200, H= 41/3, A = 400/9
=
E,= .67, E, = .78, E = .71
Solution: Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 21
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Association Scheme:
Plan:
T(5)
88966~~STS86409
111222333444555
9
6
10
6
10
6
7
7
10
6
7
7
10
7
7 5
8
5 9
8
7 9
8
6
10
58334
9
8
9
10
10
4243∞∞-~-~6225
299223414363151
8
8
1
7
7
10
10
Design T14:
V =
n₁ =
с
=
1
1/5, C2
=
E₁ = .71, E,
Solution:
15,
r = 4,
n₂ = 6,
k
= 3,
b = 20
=
1, λε
= 0
4
8,
4
P₁ = + 3]
λι
P₁= [
P,
-1/5, H= 16/3, ▲ = 20/3
= .63, E = .67
2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 16
1, 2
Dual: Not a D(x), x =
Association Scheme: T(6)
-
с 1/5, C
1
Ei
= .71, E,
Solution:
=
.63, E = .67
4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 32
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Association Scheme: T(6)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of T14.
Design T16:
V =
15,
n₁ = 8,
Р
P₁ =[
1
4
r = 3,
n2
=
303
6,
λι
k = 3,
P₂
C₁ = -1/5, c₂ = 1/5, H = 14/3, A
E,= .63, E, .71, E = .66
=
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: Truly self dual
Association Scheme: T(6)
Plan: 1 10 15
2
=
=
=
5
b
=
15
0, A2
[
4
=
1]
11
12243583649576
10
14
13
1
15
2
9
3
14
4
20315
21474658
782639
Plan: 1 2 6
1 4 8
1 3 7
1
5 9
20263748
10 11 13
10 12
14
4 11
9 12
5 14
13
8 13
8 11
5
15
4 13
9 15
9 14
HR226637
12 15
Design T17:
V = 15,
14 15
3 10
5 12
7 10
n₁ =
P
8,
r =
n =
2
4 3
3
]
6,
6, λι
k =
=
3,
b
= 30
0,
=
321
36
4
P‚= [ ¹ ¦]
2
Blocks of three treatments which are
=
1, λη
=
0)
mutual first associates (A,
are formed by annexing to every pair of
treatments occurring in the same row
(column) of the triangular association
scheme a third treatment which lies at
the intersection of the column containing
one of the treatments and the row contain-
ing the other. The set of all distinct
triples so formed constitutes the plan.
This is the method used to construct the
plans for designs T9, Solution 1, T14,
T20, T23, T24, T25, T26, and T27.
C 1
=
E,
=
-1/5, c, = 1/5, H = 28/3, A
.63, E₂ = .71, E = .66
Solution:
2
Unique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 24
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: T(6)
Plan:
Duplicate the plan of T16.
=
20
237
\n--- PAGE 00000250 ---\nTABLE XI. Partially balanced designs based on triangular association schemes -
– Continued
Design T18:
C
=
C2
1/8,
E, .70, E,
=
P
=
1,
v = 15,
= 8,
ni
r =
n: =
4 3
10, k
6, λι
=
3,
λε
b = 50
= 2
3
=
2
[
4
=
1/4, H
=
P,{
44/3, ▲ = 160/3
.73, E = .71
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 40
Association Scheme: T(6)
3457
Plan:
2 15
10 12 2
8 13
1
7 10
15 3 8
5 15
6 12
3 11 7
5 4 3
12083273SONG043
6 9 5
11 14 6
4 13 11
9 1 4
2 9
Dual: Irregular
Plan: 1 12
13
14
1
2 6
13 10 14
11 14
15
4 12
13
3 13
14
5 8
9
15
10
15
11
3
5
8 14
6
7
10 13
2178097a6∞
1122334455
12491
12359
LR132
33958
12647
10 5 1
8 6 2
15 11 10
2085273SON
12 4 8
9 15
3 14 12
4 10 6
9
14 15
8 11
13 12 9
1
1425376998
1
7 14
14
8 2
7 15
6 3
9 11
CH4KL CENTROS C4943
08527
27356
12085
7 12
5 13
4
4 10
1 13 12
8 10 5
1 12 11
5 14
13
11
5 13 7
6 1 3
2
5
10 15 1
12
98876
23311
30254
12356
12
10
6 13
10
13 14
10
9 11
5 15
1 10 12
4 11
9 15
12345
11 12 15
12368
7 11
13 15
4 8
6 10
12 14
4 9
5 12
7 13
6 14 15
7 14
8 13
8 10 11
10 15
7
8 12
12345
59243
6 14
5 11 13
Solution 2:
8 15
9
13
6 12
10
14
7 11
Adapted from Masuyama's solution
(1965); nonunique
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: T(6)
= 40
Design T19:
=
V =
15,
n₁ = 8,
-1/5, C₂
=
r =
13
5 11
4 14 6
9,
=
k 3,
b
= 45
n₂ = 6,
4 31
=
λ, 0, λε
=
4
=
P. 3] P.- [1]
P‚{
1/5, H= 14, A
E,= .63, E, = .71, E = .66
2
Solution: Unique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 36
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: T(6)
Plan:
= 45
Repeat the plan of T16 three times.
Design T20:
V =
C₁ =
1/7, C2
21,
n₁ = 10, n,=
=
P
-
3
b = 35
1, λε 0
4 67
r = 5, k = 3,
10, λ,
=
5
ย
P₂
=
-[ 3.
-3/14, H= 19/3, A = 28/3
E,= .70, E, = .62, E = .66
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Association Scheme: T(7)
Plan:
= 30
Apply the construction procedure described
for design T14 to the triangular associa-
tion scheme with parameter n = 7.
238
\n--- PAGE 00000251 ---\nTABLE XI. Partially balanced designs based on triangular association schemes - Continued
Design T21:
C 1
=
C1
y =
21,
r = 10, k = 3,
b
=
10, n,= 10, A₁
5 4
=
2,
λε
=
70
0
P,
4
P₁ = [ + ]
1/7, =
E₁ = .70, E, = .62, E = .66
-3/14, H= 38/3, A
Solution:
5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
=
60
1, 2, 3
Dual: Not a D(x), x =
Association Scheme: T(7)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of T20.
Design T22:
2
=
112/3
V = 21, t = 10, k = 3,
n₁ =
10, n
=
P‚- 5 :]
{ 5
P,
=
10, λ, 0, λε
4
b = 70
=
P₁= [ * ]
2
c -2/21, c, = 1/7, H = 46/3, ▲ = 56
E,= .65, E,= .70, E = .67
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
= 60
220
614 16
Design T24:
v = 36, r = 7,
k
ni
P
=
1
14, n,= 21,
7 6
15
λ,
=
-
3,
b = 84
1, A₂ = 0
P₁ = [410]
2
c, = 1/12, c₂ = -5/24, H= 25/3, ▲ = 16
E₁ = .69, E, = .62, E = .65
2
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Association Scheme: T(9)
= 77
Plan: Apply the construction procedure
described for design T14 to the
triangular association scheme with
parameter n = 9.
Design T25: v = 45, r = 8, k
C₁ =
1/15, C₂
ni
=
=
16, n
P, { 8
=
=
21]
28, A
=
=
3,
1,
λ,
b = 120
4 12
P,= [ 4
-1/5, H= 28/3, A = 20
E= .68, E, .63, E = .64
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Association Scheme: T(10)
= 112
Plan: Apply the construction procedure
described for design T14 to the
triangular association scheme with
parameter n = 10.
C₁ =
=
3/55, C1
v = 55, r = 9, k = 3,
=
=
18, n
9 87
P,{
=
28]
36, A, =
15
=
0
b = 165
1,
2
P₁= [
λε
4 14
= 0
21
-21/110, H= 31/3, A = 220/9
.68, E, = .63, E = .64
Association Scheme: T(7)
Plan: 1 12 19
3 10 15
5 11 16
1 12 21
3 10 20
5 12 20
1 13 17
3 11 14
5 12 20
1 13 18
3 11 19
6 7 17
1 14 18
3 13 21
6
7 19
1 14 20
3 13 21
6
8 13
1 15 16
4
7 18
6
8 19
Design T26:
1 15 19
4
7 21
6
9 12
n
1
1 16 21
4
8 14
6 9 17
1 17 20
4
8 21
6 10 12
2
8 20
4 10 12
6 10 13
2
8 21
4 10 18
2
9 17
4 11 12
6 14 16
E,
2
9 21
4 11 14
7 16 21
2 10 16
4 15 17
7 17 20
2 10 20
4
15 17
8 14 20
2 11 16
7 16
8 15 19
2 11 17
7 18
9 12 21
8 13
9 14 18
8 15
10 13 18
3 7 19
9 15
10 15 16
3
7 20
9 18
11 12 19
3
9 14
5 11 13
11 13 17
3
9 15
Design T27:
Design T23:
28,
V =
n₁ =
r = 6,
k = 3, b = 56
n₁ =
12, n
6 5
10
15, A,
Р
Solution:
2 18 19
2 18 19
5555555
=
Nonresolvable
Pi
=
=
1, λ, 0
P₁ = [ 4 8]
2
C₁ = 3/28, =
C 2 -3/14, H= 22/3, ▲ = 112/9
E,= .69, E, = .62, E = .65
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Association Scheme: T(8)
Plan: Apply the construction procedure
described for design T14 to the
triangular association scheme with
parameter n = 8.
=
50
Solution: Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 156
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Association Scheme: T(11)
Plan: Apply the construction procedure
described for design T14 to the
triangular association scheme with
parameter n = 11.
CI
=
1/22,
v = 66, r = 10, k = 3,
45, A,
=
20, n,
9
P. 103%]
36
=
b = 220
=
1, λε 0
16
P₁ = [428]
P,
=
C1 -2/11, H= 34/3, A = 88/3
E,= .68, E₂ = .63, E = .64
Complement: Not listed, r = 210
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Association Scheme: T(12)
Plan: Apply the construction procedure
described for design T14 to the
triangular association scheme with
parameter n = 12.
239
\n--- PAGE 00000252 ---\nTABLE XI. Partially balanced designs based on triangular association schemes - Continued
Design T28:
2/5, C:
E,= .83, E,
Solution:
2
v =
10,
r = 2,
3,
n₂ =
k = 4,
b = 5
A,
=
1, λε
= 0
4
n₁ = 6,
=
3 2
P‚={ ³ }]
የ
P₁ = [ + 2]
2
-1/5, H= 13/4, A = 5/2
= .71, E = .79
Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design T57
Dual: The BIB design (5,10,4,2,1), Roy and Laha
(1956)
Association Scheme: T(5)
Plan:
3
37269
26937
1580
41580
2
6
4
9 10
Plan: Duplicate the plan of T29.
Design T32:
v =
n₁ =
P
10.
r = 10, k
=
6, n 3, λι
3 2
=
=
4,
5, λε
b = 25
= 0
P‚= [ 4 2]
CI 2/5, c₂ = -1/5, H= 65/4, ▲ = 125/2
=
E, .83, E, = .71, E = .79
=
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 15
Dual: Design S112, a unique design
Association Scheme: T(5)
Plan: Repeat the plan of T28 five times.
Design T33:
v =
n₁ =
10,
6,
r = 4,
n
3 2
=
21
k
=
4,
b = 10
3, λι
=
=
1, λε 2
P‚= [ 4 2]
Design T29:
v = 10,
=
C₁ =
215,
C 1
=
Р
1
r =
=
4,
6, n 3,
3 2
λ
k
= 4,
=
2, λε
b:
=
=
P₁ = [42]
Р
-1/5, H= 13/2, A
E,= .83, E, = .71, E = .79
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Design T58
Dual: Design S9, a unique design
Association Scheme:
= 10
10
0
T(5)
Plan: 1 2 3
4
2
1
4
3
5
6 7
1
6
5
1
7
8
9
2
9
8
2
10
3
6
3
10 8
6
4
7
9
10
7
4
10
9
C₁ =
P
4/15, c, =
=
8/15, H= 27/4, A
=
45/4
E, .80, E, .87, E = .82
=
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design T60
Dual: Truly self dual
Association Scheme: T(5)
Plan: 2 10
10
752486-936
10
1
5 7
1
5
6289634TIS
10
7
613294TSD8
7
6158394
30
15
Design T34:
Design T30:
C₁ = 2/5, C2
v = 10, r =
6,
k
n
=
6,
n2
=
3,
A,
3 2
Р
=
P₁
=
=
4,
3, λε
4
b:
=
=
P₁ = [ + 2]
2
-1/5, H= 39/4, ▲ = 45/2
E, .83, E, = .71, E = .79
=
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Design T59
Dual: Design S35, a unique design
Association Scheme:
T(5)
Plan: Repeat the plan of T28 three times.
V = 10, r = 8,
Design T31:
n
= 6,
Р
1
k
=
4,
b
= 20
=
3, λι
=
21
P₂
2
n2
3 2
=
4, λ2 = 0
4 27
[2]
C₁ =
E,
=
2/5,
=
C 2 -1/5, H= 13, A = 40
.83, E, = .71, E = .79
Solution:
Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: Design S66, a unique design
Association Scheme: T(5)
r = 8,
v = 10,
n₁ = 6, n,
3 2
=
P, { ³ } ]
P,√ 3
с 76/175, c₂ =
=
1
E,= .84, E,
Solution:
3,
k =
=
4,
A, 3, λη
4
b = 20
= 2
P₁ = [+ 2]
2
52/175, H = 53/4, ▲ = 175/4
= .81, E = .83
4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: T(5)
Plan:
7524801936
7
5
6289634TIS
10
2076158394
0132947568
(Plan continued on next page)
240
\n--- PAGE 00000253 ---\nTABLE XI. Partially balanced designs based on triangular association schemes – Continued
Plan:
4158037269
372694IS
1
5
10
8
26937158U4
1580426937
10
Design T35:
c₁ = 4/9,
E
=
V =
ni
c₂
=
=
.84, E,
=
10,
6,
3
r = 10, k =
P, { ³ 2]
4,
3,
λι
=
4, λε
4
b = 25
= 2
P₁ = [2]
2
2/9, H = 33/2, ▲ = 135/2
.79, E = .83
Solution: Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 15
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: T(5)
Plan:
158042OPOLS∞m
2 10
269376-329475
9 10
1
7
8 2
6
10
3
Design T38:
3 10
v = 15,
8,
ni
P₁
=
{
r = 8,
na
4 3
=
313
6,
4
8
36752TBCIA36
3 10
1
7 9
156289034TIS
68013294750∞
942076158394
415807SZTRO-9
3726962∞RO347
2 10
k = 4,
b = 30
λι
3, λε
4
=
P‚= [ * ¦]
0
9 10
4/15, C:
C₁ =
E,=
= .80,
=
E,
=
-4/15, H= 12, A
.70, E = .76
=
135/4
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 22
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Association Scheme: T(6)
Plan:
867524801936
10
3 10
696289UBATIS
370132947568
042076-SB3a+
1
5
10
8
4
9 10
7
9
1
5
415804ISROFI5
10
10
10
10
9 10
3726937269372
2693726237269
158O4ISROTIS∞
Design T36:
C₁ =
=
4/15, C2
E, .80, E,
Solution:
V =
10, r = 8,
k
=
4, b
n₁ =
6, n
3 2
=
3,
λι
=
2, λε
P
1
=
P₁ = [ 4 2]
2
8/15, H= 27/2, A = 45
.87, E = .82
4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: T(5)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of T33.
Design T37: v = 10,
C₁ =
E,
=
5/14,
.82, E,
C:
=
=
=
=
20
= 4
r = 10, k = 4, b = 25
=
6, n 3, λι
P₁ = 3 2 ]
=
3, λε
P₁ = [ + 2]
13/28, H = 67/4, ▲ = 70
.85, E = .83
Solution: Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 15
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: T(5)
=
43215BOTB+87619
10
10
32154OTB4376198
21543734306-98
15432343UTI9876
10
7
Design T39:
C₁ =
=
r =
v = 28,
= 12, n₂ =
n₁ =
51
P‚ -{ 6,5]
Р
1
10
4531822106
11
6
2
12
11 12 2
84530622
8 11
13
4
11
15
8
13 15 4
13 15
10 11
10
6
10 11 12
3429
5 9
15 5
12 14
9
12
14 15
12 14
42
12 14
554
9
15
5
15
4, b = 56
k =
8,
15, A
=
=
2, A,
4
P₁ = [
= [ + 8]
1/7, C
-2/7, H= 11, ▲ = 28
E₁ = .78, E, = .70, E = .73
Complement: Not listed, r = 48
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Association Scheme: T(8)
=
Plan: Using the BIB design (7,7,4,4,2) whose
unique solution is given by developing
the initial block 1 2 3 5 modulo 7 as
model, construct, in turn, n 8 BIB
designs, one from the treatments of each
row (column) of the triangular association
scheme T(8).
241
\n--- PAGE 00000254 ---\nTABLE XI. Partially balanced designs based on triangular association schemes - Continued
v = 28, r = 10, k
Design T40:
ni
=
=
12, n₂ =
P₁ = 6,5]
10
4,
=
b
=
70
15,入​ı
=
0, λε
-
2
P
4
= [ + 8]
1/7, H= 17, A = 70
= .76
-1/14, c₂ =
E,= .74, E, = .78, E
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: T(8)
= 60
18 21
25
24
21
8 22 23
22222222222222222222222222222222222
9 15 27
6 9 16 25
design T41.
The plan so obtained is
known to have a triangular association
scheme, but it has not been identified
and is certainly not the standard
triangular association scheme T(9).
Design T42:
V =
n₁ =
91,
r = 8, k =
24, n,=
11
66, λ1
=
4,
b = 182
1, λε
4 20
=
P. [12] P.- [28]
1
55
2
4/91, c₂ = -20/91, H= 10, A =
E,= .76, E, = .71, E = .72
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Association Scheme: T(14)
= 174
91/4
45
Plan: Utilize the BIB design (13,13,4,4,1),
whose unique solution is obtained by
developing modulo 13 the initial block
0139 as a model for constructing 14
BIB designs successively, one from the
treatment symbols of each row of the
triangular association scheme T(14).
The resulting 182 blocks constitute the
plan for the present design.
Design T43:
Plan: 1 14 23 28
4 11
17 22
с =
1
1 14 24 27
4 12
16
22
1 15 20 28
4 12
18
20
1 15 22 26
4 13
14 26
1 16 21 25
4 13 17 20
1
16 22 24
5 8 19 28
1 17 19 27
5
8
19
28
1 17 20 25
5
9
17
25
1
18 19
26
5 9
18 24
1 18 21 23
5 10
17
2
9 23 28
5 10
2
9 24 27
5 12
14
2
10 20 28
5
12 15
2 10 22 26
5 13 14
2 11 21 25
5 13 15
2 11 22 24
6
8 22
23
2 12 19 27
6
2 12 20 25
6
2 13 19 26
2
13 21 23
6 10 14 27
3
8 25 26
3
8 25 26
6 11 14
3 10 16 28
3 10 17 27
3 11 15 28
6 13 16 19
3 11 18 24
7 8 20
24
3 12 15 27
3 12 18 23
3 13 16 24
3 13 17 23
7
8 20
24
7 9 15
26
7 9 17
23
7 10 14
26
Plan:
4 8 21 27
7 10 16 21
4
8 21 27
7 11
15
4
9 16 28
7 11
17
19
4 9 18 26
7 12 14
7 12
16
19
v = 36,
r =
7,
k =
4,
b
21, A
1
6 10 18 20
25
6 11 18 19
6 13 15 20
Ei
=
1/34, C2
0
v = 136, r = 10, k = 4, b = 340
30, n
105, λ
n₁ =
1, λε = 0
=
=
4 26
P.-[1514] P.-[28]
Р
=
91
-13/68, H= 49/4, A = 34
= .76, E₂ = .72, E = .72
2
Solution: Unique
Complement: Not listed, r = 330
Association Scheme: T(17)
78
Method of construction. Utilize the
BIB design (16,20,5,4,1), whose unique
resolvable solution is
∞ 05 10
∞ 1 611
∞ 2 7 12
1 3 4 12
2 4 5 13
3 5 6 14
7 9 10 3
8 10 11 4
12 14 0 8
13 0 19
00
00
4 11 14 28
Design T41:
C₁ =
ni
= 14, n₂ =
=
=
0,
10
=
=
P.-18] P.-[418]
Pi
=
7 6
15
2
-2/45, c, 1/9, H = 47/4, A =
E,= .74, E, = .77, E = .76
Complement: Not listed, r = 56
Dual: A D(3), Shrikhande (1965)
Association Scheme: Not identified
135/4
10
63
Plan: To construct the plan use is made of the
design PG5 (alternatively, design T54)
and a procedure given by Shrikhande
(1965). In the plan for design PG5
identify sets U, of seven blocks
containing treatment i where i =
12,...,9. Form sets U of blocks, each
block of size k 4, by deleting treatment
i from U₁. The 63 blocks given by U
i = 1,2,...,9, constitute a plan for
=
6892
11 13 14 7
3 8 13
4 6 7 0
9 11 12 5
14 1 2 10
4 9 14
0 2 3 11
5 7 8 1
10 12 13 6
as a model for constructing 17 BIB designs
successively, one from the treatment
symbols of each row of the triangular
association scheme T(17). The resulting
340 blocks constitute the plan for the
present design.
242
\n--- PAGE 00000255 ---\nTABLE XI. Partially balanced designs based on triangular association schemes - Continued
v =
10,
r = 3,
k
=
5,
b = 6
6,
n
=
3,
入​ı
=
Design T44:
n₁ =
3
2
P‚ { ³ 2]
Р
-
1, λε 2
4
P₂= [ ¹ 2]
=
1/3, C2
=
2/3, H = 27/5, A
=
36/5
E,= .86, E, = .92, E = .88
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual:
The BIB design (6,10,5,3,2), Roy and Laha
(1956)
Association Scheme: T(5)
Plan:
Remark: This solution is important as an example
to demonstrate that 'truly self comple-
mentary' is in fact a stronger statement
than 'self complementary'.
Design T46:
v =
ni
=
10,
69
b
-
12
5,
=
2, A₂ 4
4 2
r = 6,
k
=
n₂ =
3,
A,
=
3 2
P
1
P:
=
[
144/5
3
4 10
5
7
2
3
10
2
3
352323
767502
946995
884667
118418
10
Design T45:
v = 10,
6,
ni
CI
= 19/35, c₂
P₁
=
=
r =
n₂ =
3 21
]
6,
3,
λι
k = 5,
=
3, λη
4
b
= 12
P,= [ [ + 2]
13/35, H= 53/5, A = 28
E,= .90, E, = .86, E = .89
Solution 1: As given by Chang, Liu and Liu
(1965); nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Self complementary but not truly
self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: T(5)
Plan: 1
1
5
9
7
7 10
9
4867766988∞∞
33465657677
nargao*°°°°°
2223453 45446
----1222335
2
8
8 10
8
9 10
9 10
9 10
10
9
22
C₁ =
E,= .86, E,
1/3,
C 2
=
=
2/3, H = 54/5, A =
.92, E .88
=
Solution: Unique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Design S28, a unique design
Association Scheme: T(5)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of T44.
Design T47:
C1
=
1/3,
v =
1
=
10,
6,
P,{
r = 9,
k
=
5,
b = 18
=
3,
λι 3, λε
3 27
=
=
}] P₁ = [ 4 2]
=
2
2/3, H = 81/5, A
C 2
E,= .86, E,
=
= .92, E = .88
324/5
Solution: Unique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Design S86, which is a unique design
Association Scheme: T(5)
Plan: Repeat the plan of T44 three times.
Design T48:
V =
15,
n₁ = 8,
=
1/3, C2
=
E,= .86, E,
r = 2,
Р
P₁ =
n₂ =
4 3
6,
313
λι
6
k
= 5, b = 6
=
P,
2
-1/3, H= 16/5, ▲ =
= .75, E = .81
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design T92
=
1, λε 0
4
[ +
12/5
Dual: The BIB design (6,15,5,2,1), Roy and Laha
(1956)
Association Scheme: T(6)
Solution 2:
Complement of Solution 1; nonunique;
nonresolvable
Complement: Self complementary but not truly
self complementary
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: T(5)
Plan:
9
7
8
200 goдr∞∞-0
9 10
10
9 10
8 9
8 10
9
4 10
7
9 10
6 8
979676764
869564T54553
755433433222
2
1
1
1
1
1
643222------
Plan:
1 2
6 7
27
10 11
13 14
15 4
5 9 12 14 15
492714
38238 2
51
6
7 10
11 13
243
\n--- PAGE 00000256 ---\nTABLE XI. Partially balanced designs based on triangular association schemes - Continued
Design T49:
V =
15, r = 4,
8,
n₁ =
n
=
P, 43]
k
= 5,
b = 12
6,
λι
=
2, A2
4
= 0
P₂= [ ¹ ¦]
2
C 1
=
1/3, C2
=
-1/3, H= 32/5, ▲ = 48/5
Solution:
Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 32
Dual: Not a D(x), x =
Association Scheme:
Plan: 1
1, 2, 3, 4
T(7)
E, .86, E, = .75, E = .81
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Design T93
Dual: Design S11, which is a unique design
Association Scheme: T(6)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of T48.
Design T50:
V = 15,
r = 6,
k
CI
Ei
=
1/3, C2
ni
=
= 8,
กร
4
=
P₁ =[ 3 ]
Pi
6, λι
=
4
P‚= [ ¹ ¦]
2
-1/3, H= 48/5, A = 108/5
-
= .86, E, = .75, E = .81
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: Design S38, which is a unique design
Association Scheme: T(6)
Plan: Repeat the plan of T48 three times.
Design T51: v = 15,
=
1
11
1
54321600
432165987
32165487
216543
9
10
11
8
5,
b = 18
98
10 11 1
7
9 10 11 1
3, λη
= 0
6
5
4
3
2
7
8
10 11
25
7
12
13 14
15 2 7
12 13
14 15
7
12
32
13 14
15
2
7
12 13
14
15
2
7 12
13
14
15
6 11
15 18
20
21 6 11
15
18
20 21 6
11
15
18 20 21
6
11
15
18
20 21 6
11
15
18
20 21
3 8 12
16
17
r = 8,
k
= 5,
b = 24
18
3
12
16
=
CI 1/3, C2
n₁ = 8,
Р
=
4
P‚={ * 3]
1
P₂ = [ + ]
P.
2
-1/3, H= 64/5, ▲ = 192/5
E, .86, E, = .75, E = .81
=
2
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 16
Dual: Design S69, a unique design
Association Scheme: T(6)
Plan: Repeat the plan of T48 four times.
Design T52:
C₁ =
1/3, C2
= .86, E,
E₁ =
v=
ni
=
=
Р
=
15,
8,
P₁ =[
r = 10, k
-
n2 6, λι
303
4 3
P
=
=
-1/3, H= 16, ▲ = 60
.75, E = .81
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 20
Dual: Design S114, a unique design
Association Scheme: T(6)
5, λη
4
=
=
[ + ]
Plan: Repeat the plan of T48 five times.
Design T53:
=
v = 21, r = 10, k
ni
=
30
=
5,
10, n₂ =
5
10, λ,
=
4, λε
=
0
4 6
=
P.] P.-[9]
C1 5/21, c₂ =
-5/14, H= 76/5, A = 1344/25
E, .84, E, = .75, E = .79
=
n2
=
6, λι
=
4, λε
4
=
0
17
18
3
8
12
8
12
4
7629
16 17 18 3
12 16 17 18
8763
8
3
16 17
18
13
16
19
20 4 9 13
16
19 20 4
13
16 19 20 4
9
13
16 19 20 4
9
13
16 19
20
5
10 14
17
19
21
5 10
14
17
19
21
10 14
17 19 21
5
10
=
5,
b
300
14
17 19 21 5
10
14
17
19
21
b = 42
Design T54:
v = 45,
r = 7,
k
=
ni
=
16, n, = 28, λ,
P₁ = 821]
5,
b = 63
=
0, λε 1
4
P₁ = [ + 12]
CI -1/27, c, = 1/9, H = 62/5, A = 189/5
=
E,= .79, E, = .82, E = .81
=
Complement: Not listed, r 56
Dual: Design PG10
Association Scheme: Triangular, but not
identified
15
Plan: This is the same as design PG5 except
that the names of the associate classes
are interchanged. Use the plan for
design PG5.
244
\n--- PAGE 00000257 ---\nTABLE XI. Partially balanced designs based on triangular association schemes - Continued
c₁ = 2/3, c₂
=
=
E, .94, E,
=
P₁ =[
Р
3
1/3, H:
n
2
=
21
6,
3,
=
11, A
=
.88, E = .92
λι
k
=
=
6,
4, λη
4
b = 10
=
= [ + 2]
P,=
Solution: Unique; 3-resolvable
2
30
Complement: Design T29, a unique design
Dual: S26, a unique design
Association Scheme:
Plan:
T(5)
9 10
2
Design T55:
v = 66,
ni
P
=
= J
20, n2
1
10 9
36
=
10, k = 5,
45, A,
=
2,
P
=
2
[
b = 132
A2
4 16
28
=
0
Design T58:
v = 10,
6,
n₁ =
r =
C₁ =
5/66, C2
=
-10/33, H= 68/5, A
E,= .81, E₂ = .75, E = .77
2
=
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r 122
Association Scheme: T(12)
=
1056/25
Plan: Utilize the BIB design (11,11,5,5,2),
whose unique solution is obtained by
developing modulo 11 the initial block
0 2 3 4 8, as a model for constructing
12 BIB designs successively, one from the
treatment symbols of each of the 12 rows
of the triangular association scheme
T(12). The resulting 132 blocks
constitute the plan for the present
design.
Design T56:
v = 231, r = 10,
=
ni
Pi
=
40, n, 190,
20 19
171
= 462
=
λ₂ 0
4 36
k = 5,
b:
λ₁ = 1,
2
P₂ =
[
74193
69328
50471
3
10
10
08642
3715
82056
10 9
13715
08642
74193
82056
3
7
52471
10
69328
CI
=
5/231,
E₁ = .80, E,
1
Solution:
C 2
=
=
-15/77, H= 64/5, ▲ =
.77, E = .78
Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Association Scheme: T(22)
=
452
153
924/25
Plan: Utilize the BIB design (21,21,5,5,1),
whose unique solution is obtained by
developing modulo 21 the initial block
0 14 14 16, as a model for constructing
22 BIB designs successively, one from
the treatment symbols of each of the 22
rows of the triangular association scheme,
T(22). The resulting 462 blocks
constitute the plan for the present
design.
Design T57:
C1
=
2/3, C2
=
=
v =
10.
n₁ = 6,
r = 3,
3,
n₂
-
P₁ =[ 32 ]
Р
6°
Design T59:
V = 10, r = 9,
n₁ = 6,
3,
λι
=
C₁ =
2/3, C2
E, = .94, E₂
=
=
P₁ =[ 3
n2
=
3 27
=
k = 6, b = 15
6, λε
4
=
P= [
P‚= [ ¹ 2]
1/3, H 33/2, A = 135/2
.88, E
.92
Solution: Unique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Design T30, a unique design
Dual: Design S85, a unique design
Association Scheme: T(5)
Plan:
Repeat the plan of T57 three times.
P₁
=
6,
3
6,
b = 10
=
=
-
3, λε 4
4 21
Design T60:
v = 10,
r = 6,
k
ni
n2
=
3,
λ
3 2
P
=
2
[
280/9
=
=
15/28,
E,= .92, E₂ = .94, E = .92
39/56, H 67/6, A =
C 2
k
=
b
5
C₁ =
=
λι 2, A2 1
=
Р
=
2
[ + 2]
4
1/3, H = 11/2, ▲ = 15/2
E, .94, E, = .88, E
2
=
.92
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design T28, a unique design
Dual:
The BIB design (5,10,6,3,3), Roy and Laha
(1956)
Association Scheme: T(5)
Plan:
10
54421
74193
69328
9 10
08642
93715
82056
5
7
8
1 10
2
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design T33
Dual:
Truly self dual
Association Scheme: T(5)
Plan:
10
6
3491576002
4653782109
5768390241
89074-5623
9810023457
13452069870
8
245
\n--- PAGE 00000258 ---\nTABLE XI. Partially balanced designs based on triangular association schemes - Continued
ni
=
4
3,
4
P.3] P.- [1]
2
=
1
Design T61:
V = 15,
8, na
=
r = 6,
6, λι
k
= 6,
b = 15
=
λ,
=
Nonresolvable
Plan:
1
12 13 15
10
11 10 13
C=249155
11 14 15
3 6
14 12 4 8
1 9
112592354
7543894362
2310307458
11 14
6
9 15 10
2 13 14
3 11 12
6 8
7 10
8 12 7 2 13
E,=
=
10/21, c:
= .91, E, =
Solution:
=
2/21, H= 31/3, A = 105/4
.85, E = .88
Complement: Design T84
Dual: Truly self dual
Association Scheme: T(6)
Plan: 1
11
9
08643122553:
7653153
64217
32139
21284543W
7
5
4
8
9
3
10 11
14
5 10
2
2
11
4 5
12
15
13
14
3
4
6
10
7
8
11
10
7
6
12
9
14
12
6
11 15
8
9
8
9
15
13
13
15 12
14 10
48
14
7
11
Solution 3: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design T83, Solution 3
Dual: The a, solution of Nandi (1946a) for the
BIB design (10,15,6,4,2), Roy and Laha
(1956)
Association Scheme: T(6)
Plan: 1 2
3 1
10 12
14 13
7 10 15 4
2 15 13
3
9
87965314
10 14 15
11 15 12
1 4 13
156
5 1 11
6
9
5 11 10 3 8
11 14 4 2 9 7
4
3 6
8 12 14
5
8 12 2
7 13
Design T62:
y = 15,
r = 4,
k = 6,
ni
=
8,
n:
=
6, λι
λε
4 37
=
1,
4
b = 10
2
=
P.-[3] P.- [1]
2
=
C₁ = 1/4, c₂ = 1/2, H= 22/3, ▲ = 40/3
E₁ = .87, E,
=
.91, E
= .89
Solution 1: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design T83, Solution 1
Dual: The B₂ solution of Nandi (1946a) for
the BIB design (10,15,6,4,2), Roy and
Laha (1956)
Association Scheme: T(6)
Plan:
845
4 10
12 14 1
4 15 10
7
5
8
9
3 10
1
2625
6 2 13 15 14
2 12 5
12 6 13
8 7 13
7 3 1
15
4 3 9
12 11
34
3 14 11 8 6 5
14 7 11 4 2 9
1 5 9
10 13 11
Solution 2:
Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design T83, Solution 2
2
Dual: The a₁, solution of Nandi (1946a) for the BIB
design (10,15,6,4,2), Roy and Laha (1956)
Association Scheme:
T(6)
Design T63:
CI
=
E,
=
82/187,
v = 15,
n₁ =
Р
r = 10, k
=
8, n2 6,
P₁ = 43]
λι
=
=
6,
b = 25
=
4, λε 3
4
P;= [ ¹ ¦]
=
C 2 62/187, H= 53/3, A = 935/12
.90, E₂ = .88, E = .89
Solution 1: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 15
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: T(6)
Plan: To the plan for T61 annex the plan for
T62, Solution 1.
Solution 2:
Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: T(6)
Plan:
=
15
To the plan of T61 annex the plan for
T62, Solution 2.
Solution 3: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: T(6)
=
€15
Plan: To the plan for T61 annex the plan for
T62, Solution 3.
246
\n--- PAGE 00000259 ---\nTABLE XI. Partially balanced designs based on triangular association schemes - Continued
Design T64:
v = 15,
8,
n₁ =
с =
1/4, c₂ =
=
E,= .87, E,
r =
8,
k
=
λ
n2
4
=
P₁ = 3]
6,
=
6,
2, A₂
= ¹
b
=
20
=
4
P₁ = [ * ]
2
1/2, H= 44/3, ▲ = 160/3
.91, E = .89
Solution 1: Nonunique; 4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: Design S67, Solution 1.
Association Scheme: T(6)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of T62, Solution 1.
Solution 2: Nonunique; 4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: Design S67, Solution 2
Association Scheme: T(6)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of T62, Solution 2.
Solution 3: Nonunique; 4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: Design S67, Solution 3
Association Scheme: T(6)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of T62, Solution 3.
Design T65:
v =
21,
r = 2,
k
=
6, b
=
7
10, λι
=
1, λη
0
n₁ = 10, n,
C₁ = 2/7, c₂ =
4
=
P₁ =[ 5 ]
4 6
=
P.= [9]
-3/7, H= 19/6, A
E¸= .87, E¸ = .78, E =
2
=
.82
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, k
Dual:
= 15
2
=
7/3
The BIB design (7,21,6,2,1), Roy and Laha
(1956)
Association Scheme: T(7)
S128372
Plan: 1 2 3 4
5
6
7 8 9 10
11
1
12 13 14
16 17 18
15
3
7
19 20 4
21 5 10
6 11 15
9
14 17 19
18 20 21
8 12
16
Design T66:
n₁ =
10, n,=
5
C₁ =
217,
V =
21, r = 4,
10, A,
]
Pi
k = 6,
=
2, λε
4
b = 14
=
P‚= [ ¹ º]
2
C 2 -3/7, H= 19/3, ▲ = 28/3
=
E,= .87, E, = .78, E = .82
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, k
= 15
Dual: Design S13, a unique design
Association Scheme:
T(7)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of T65.
=
Design T67:
ni
=
v = 21, r =
10, n,=
6,
k = 6,
b = 21
10, A,
=
3, λε
2
C₁ =
2/7, c₂ =
E,= .87, E,
=
5
4 6
P.-] P.-[9]
-3/7, H= 19/2, A = 21
.78, E = .82
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 15
Dual: Design S42, a unique design
Association Scheme: T(7)
Plan: Repeat the plan of T65 three times.
Design T68:
c₁ = 2/7, c₂
v = 21,
10, n
ni
5
=
=
Pi
r = 8, k = 6,
10, A,
ย
=
-3/7, H= 38/3, A
E,= .87, E₂ = .78, E = .82
=
b = 28
4, λε
4
= 0
P₁ = [ + ]
2
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 20
Dual: Design S73, a unique design
Association Scheme: T(7)
=
112/3
Plan: Repeat the plan of T65 four times.
Design T69:
=
217,
C:
V =
ni
=
=
E, .87, E,=
=
21,
r = 10, k = 6,
=
10, n 10, λ,
5 4
Pi
-3/7, H= 95/6, A
.78, E = .82
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 25
=
5,
b = 35
λε = 0
4 6
- [ + ]
=
175/3
Dual: Design S116, a unique design
Association Scheme: T(7)
Plan: Repeat the plan of T65 five times.
Design T70: v = 21, r =
ni
=
=
10, n
=
P₁ = 5 ]
10, k = 6,
b = 35
10, A₁
=
4, λ₂
4
=
P₁ = [ + ]
-2/133, H= 33/2, ▲ =
.83, E = .86
C₁ = 48/133, c
E₁ = .89, E,
=
Solution:
Nonresolvable
= 25
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), Speckman (1970)
Association Scheme: T(7)
133/2
1
(Plan continued on next page)
247
\n--- PAGE 00000260 ---\nTABLE XI. Partially balanced designs based on triangular association schemes - Continued
Plan:
7 11
1
1
4
8
9 16
8 10 17
1
5
1 3
6
8
11 18
9 10 19
1
4 5
1 4
6
9
11
20
222222+3+357727
10 11 21
1
5
6
717
3355
29213o
171
8 12
7 10 14
826293;
4
6
Plan:
2
1
10
1986573204
78654-9329
6549231087
5432167698
4321086975
3218760549
67954836
10
10
6
12 13 16
2
3 4
5
14
3
12 17
12 15 18
2
3
6
4 5
13
4 6
14 15 21
5
16
4
6 20
3 17
18
6 19
8 9
8 12
332435420
14 19
13 15 20
4 17 19
12 13 16
10 14 17
12 15 18
7 8 11
7 13 14
9 11 20
10 14 21
9
7 11 15
8
16
17
9 10 19
5 6
3 16 18
6 21
4 20 21
10 19
7 13 15
Design T72:
CI
E,
=
-
v = 28,
12, n =
n =
1
Pi
1, λ, = 0
4
-1/2, H= 22/7, ▲ = 16/7
.89, E, = .80, E = .84
Solution:
Complement: Not listed, k = 21
Dual: The BIB design (8,28,7,2,1), Roy and Laha
(1956)
Association Scheme: T(8)
2 3 4 5 6 7
r = 2, k = 7,
15, A,
b = 8
=
6 57
P₂
=
10
2
[ + 8]
1/4, C2
=
Nonresolvable
Plan:
16
11 9
8 18 20
8 10 17
11 18 21
19 20 11
9 10 21
17 19 13
12 20 18
12 14 16
15 13 16
14 15 21
12 17 18
18413287
19 20 21
23 24 25
9 10 11 12 13 1
14 15 16 17 18 2 8
22 3 9 14
4 10 15 19
26 27 5
11
16 20 23
6
12
17
21 24 26
13 19 20
16 18 21
14 15 21
17 19 20
13
18 22
25 27 28
k = 7,
=
b = 10
5, λη = 4
4 27
Design T73:
v = 28,
r = 4, k
=
ni
=
12, n
=
Design T71:
=
v = 10,
n₁ =
133/180, c
6,
r = 7,
n
=
3, A,
P₂
=
2
2
2
P₁ =[ 3 } ]
=
217/360, H = 93/7, A = 2160/49
E,= .96, E, = .94, E = .95
Solution 1: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design T9, Solution 1
Dual: Truly self dual
Association Scheme: T(5)
Plan:
6
6352108497
4201375968
3140527809
7463o
10
1
9582
CI
1/4, C2
=
Р
6 51
10
=
7,
b
=
16
15, λ, 2, λε = 0
2
P₂ =
4
[ + 8]
-1/2, H= 44/7, ▲ = 64/7
E, .89, E, = .80, E = .84
Solution:
2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: Design S14, a unique design
Association Scheme: T(8)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of T72.
10
Design T74:
9718692354
9670841235
8594730120
6
Solution 2:
Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design T9, Solution 2
Dual: Truly self dual
Association Scheme: T(5)
=
1/4, C2
v = 28, r = 6,
= 12, n
ni
=
6 5
=
P₁ = ° 18]
Pi
10
15, A,
-1/2, H= 66/7, A
E, .89, E, = .80, E = .84
=
Solution:
2
2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 18
k
=
P₂
Dual: Design S43, a unique design
Association Scheme: T(8)
=
7,
3, λε
4
b = 24
=
= [ + 8]
144/7
Plan: Repeat the plan of T72 three times.
0
248
\n--- PAGE 00000261 ---\nTABLE XI. Partially balanced designs based on triangular association schemes - Continued
Design T76:
v = 28,
r = 10, k = 7,
Design T75:
CI
=
1/4,
n
c₂ =
v =
=
Pi
28,
12, n
r = 8,
=
6 51
151
10
15, A,
k
7,
b = 32
=
4,
λι 0
[
P
=
4 8
=
-1/2, H= 88/7, ▲ = 256/7
E, .89, E, = .80, E = .84
-
Solution: 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 24
Dual: Design S75, a unique design
Association Scheme: T(8)
Plan: Repeat the plan of T72 four times.
Plan:
1
2
19
19 11
3 25 19 12 16 26
17 25 10 7 14 26
11 22 28 5 24
7 20 18 1 17
5
3 10
11 12
12 22 27 17 2
7 15 21 2 23
7
22
25 12
9 6 26 23 8
22 15 20 5 8
7 15 9 27 16 24
10 15 20 27 6 28
3
1
11 9 27 21
4 17 25
20 21
6 16
13 2 25
12 27
6
14
18
23 19
7
21
16 28
8
19 10
22
6
16 14 4
10 11
b = 40
15 14
28 13
26 3 11
ni
=
12, n₂ = 15, λ,
=
5, λε
=
0
9
16 28
4 18 5
12
C₁ =
1/4,
C 1
=
10
=
=
4
[ + 8]
-1/2, H= 110/7, A 400/7
E, .89, E, = .80, E = .84
=
Solution: 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design S117, a unique design
Association Scheme: T(8)
Plan: Repeat the plan of T72 five times.
6 51
20 14 4
13
24 12 7
P₂
21
4 18
26 1 22 15
6
13 5
17
19 15 9
18 26 24
2 10 9 20
14 5 24
1
8 27 21
13 24 1
17
23 22 16
1
2 23
25
9 14 28
= 30
17 23
8
3 20 28 4
26
2
8 19 27 4 13
5 23
Design T77:
v = 28, r =
7, k = 7,
b
= 28
n₁ =
=
12, n
15, A
=
1,
=
22
6
5
c₁ = 7/48,
C 2
P₁
=
10
P₁ = [48]
7/24, H = 90/7, ▲ = 288/7
E,= .88, E, = .89, E = .89
Solution 1:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 21
Dual: Self dual, Hoffman (1963)
Association Scheme: T(8)
3 10 21 13 18
24 8 3 25 11 6 18
Remark: It is not known whether solutions
1, 2, and 3 are isomorphic or
otherwise.
Solution 2: As given by Seiden (1963a);
nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= = 21
Dual: Self dual, Hoffman (1963)
Association Scheme: T(8)
Plan: 11 12 19 18 24 2 27
9 5 18 16 19 28 1
4 16 8 27
17 26 3 10
12 2 23
3 24 22
1 27 19
22
25 1 20
16 24 13
15
20 21 1
25 27 6
9
8 20 17
21 22 10 5
17 23 18
23
4 12
7 17 9 16
20
7 26
18
10
23
15 12 3
14 28 3 16 12 25
9 24 6 3 18 13
7
6 19 25
11 16 21
17
3
18
4
6
15 11 13 5 25
14 12 5 27 21 4 13
8
16 26 22 2 13 10
1 26 21 25
11
5
3 2 8 28
28 20
21 23
10 24 8 7
26 13 19
2 21 9
7 23 8 14
15 27 7 10
28 27 14 1 15 23 6
24
1 17 22
14 7 11
19
8 22 12
6 15 5
10
18 11 20
6 14 4
22
15 26 9 4 11 28
2206
14 9 25 2 26 5 24
20 13 28 17
4 19
(Plan continued on next page)
249
\n--- PAGE 00000262 ---\nTABLE XI. Partially balanced designs based on triangular association schemes - Continued
Solution 3: As given by Seiden (1963a);
nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 21
Dual: Self dual, Hoffman (1963)
Association Scheme: T(8)
Plan: 1 2 12 16 22 25 26
1
3
11
15
17 20 28
1
4 9
17
18
23 27
1
5 13
14
15
22 24
1
6 10
16
18
19 21
1
7 14
19
23
26 28
1
8 20 21 24
25 27
3
13 17
21
23 25
4 8 13
19
20 26
5
10
18
20
24 28
6 9 11
22 23 24
7 10 11
14 21 27
9 12 15
19 27 28
4
12
14
16 24 27
5 11 12
18
19 25
6 10 13
15
26 27
7 8 9
18 24 26
8
10 16
22 23 28
5
9 13
16
21 28
6
7
10
4 11
15 18
21
22 26
19 22 27
7
8 12
15 21 23
17 25 26
7
9 15
16
20 25
18 20 23
IIII~~~~22 333 334444555967
8 11 14 25 28
12 17 20 22
6 8 17
9 10 14
12 13 14
7 11 13 16
Design T78:
=
2/9, C2
=
1
V = 36,
ni
=
Р
=
17 19 24
r = 2,
k
21,
14, na
7 6
15
P,{
=
λι
= 8,
=
1, λε
b = 9
=
P₂ = [410]
-5/9, H= 25/8, A = 9/4
E = .90, E, = .82, E = .85
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, k = 28
0
Dual: The BIB design (9,36,8,2,1), Roy and Laha
(1956)
Association Scheme: T(9)
Plan: 1 2 3 4
9 10 11 12
16 17 18 19
22 23 24 25
27 28 29 30
31 32 33 5
34 35 6 13
36 7 14 20
8 15 21 26
Design T79:
C₁ =
219,
C 2
v =
ni
36,
5 6 7 8
13 14 15 1
20 21 2 9
26 3 10 16
4 11 17 22
12 18 23 27
19 24 28 31
25 29 32 34
30 33 35 36
r =
= 14, n
7 6
15
1
=
4,
k
=
21, A,
=
8, b = 18
2, A₂ = 0
4
P₁ = [
[ + 10]
= -5/9, H= 25/4, A = 9
E, .90, E₂ = .82, E = .85
=
Solution:
Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 14
Dual: Design S15, a unique design
Association Scheme: T(9)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of T78.
Design T80:
=
CI 2/9, C2
V =
ni
==
P
=
36,
r = 6,
14, n2
7 6
15
k
=
=
21, A,
=
P₁ =
2
8,
3, λη
4
b = 27
-
[ + 10]
0
-5/9, H= 75/8, A
E,= .90, E, = .82, E = .85
2
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 21
Dual: Design S45, a unique design
Association Scheme: T(9)
=
81/4
Plan: Repeat the plan of T78 three times.
Design T81:
v = 36, r = 8,
ni
=
14, n2
1
=
2/9, C2
=
7 6
15
=
k
=
21, λι
=
P,
8,
4, λε
4
b = 36
=
P₂ = [ + 10]
2
-5/9, H= 25/2, A = 36
E,= .90, E₂ = .82, E = .85
2
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 28
Dual: Design S77, a unique design
Association Scheme: T(9)
Plan: Repeat the plan of T78 four times.
Design T82: v =
n =
2/9, C2
=
=
1
36, r = 10, k
14,
0
b = 45
=
8,
=
21, A,
n2
5, λε €0
7 6
Pi
1
15
P₂= [410]
225/4
-5/9, H= 125/8, ▲ =
E, .90, E₂ = .82, E = .85
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 35
Dual: Design S120, a unique design
Association Scheme:
T(9)
Plan: Repeat the plan of T78 five times.
15,
Design T83:
V =
n₁ =
8,
c, = 13/25,
1
r = 6, k = 9, b = 10
n2
=
6,
4 3
3
=
λ, 3, λε
4
= 4
P₁ = [ + ]
P,
=
C 2 17/25, H = 104/9, A = 100/3
E¸ = .94, E₂ = .96, E = .95
Solution 1:
Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design T62, Solution 1
Dual: The BIB design (10,15,9,6,5), for which
there exist 3 nonisomorphic solutions,
Roy and Laha (1956)
Association Scheme:
T(6)
(Plan continued on next page)
250
\n--- PAGE 00000263 ---\nTABLE XI. Partially balanced designs based on triangular association schemes - Continued
Plan:
21176729
39413L
9 12
4 13
11
14 5
8 5
9 10 4
15
6 10 13
8 14 15
12
0227
12 13
12
1
4
7824984552
6343114756
12325
7 13
5370=
9 15
2 14
8 11
12
11
5 10
9 10
8 10
11
14
2 15
10 13
RHHSO09232
9258423383
54694561
2
32
76543215-
654321
5432
432151
Plan:
1
12
1
13
14 1
11
10 11
13
5
15
9
12 5
15 1
8
9
10 11 12
7
8
9 10 13 14
91084
8073463
7
6
6
7
8 9
11
13 15 1 4
Solution 2:
Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design T62, Solution 2
Dual: The BIB design (10,15,9,6,5), for which
there exist 3 nonisomorphic solutions,
Roy and Laha (1956)
534250
6
7
8
9
12 14 15 1
11
6 7
14
10 13
2 12
15
13 6 8
11 10
12 2
10 12 14 6
15 4 11 13 10 7
10 3 14
14 13
4352
9
11 5
8 14
4 12 15
7 15
8
12 9
11
5335
Association Scheme:
T(6)
Design T85:
Plan: 3 4 5
10 11 14
6 7 9
621
2
8 12 7
48
17
5
8 10
1 2 13 5
19
9 12 15 1
3 11 13
843373522
13 15
14
13
12
10
8 12 14
6 14 15
9 10 11
9554320TKN
12
O724256711
10 12 13
8 9
6 15
11 14
5 15 11
6 14
8
7
10 13
2 9
1
3 4
3 5
C₁ =
=
=
b = 28
= 2
k = 9,
1, λ,
4 10
=
P,= [
[
2/7, H = 119/9, ▲ = 392/9
E, .90, E, = .92, E = .91
Solution:
Complement: Not listed, r = 21
107
10
Dual: The BIB design (28,36,9,7,2), Roy and
Laha (1956)
Association Scheme: T(9)
v = 36,
n₁ = 14, n₁ =
Pi
r = 7,
21,
A,
7
15
1/7, C2
Nonresolvable
7 8 11
6
14805
Solution 3:
Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design T62, Solution 3
Dual: The BIB design (10,15,9,6,5), for which
there exist 3 nonisomorphic solutions,
Roy and Laha (1956)
Association Scheme: T(6)
Plan:
4 5 6
10 14 13 2
39621
9 12 3 8 10
8 12
4 5 11
2
9550347351
7448923216
14 15 2
13 1
7 11 15
10
12 14
4 13
Plan: 1 19 20
17 13 26
2 12 24
25 34 11 18 9 3
4 27 26 32 10 35
5 7 24 27
16 35 11 7
36 9
32 30
35
27 8
20 10 3
31 30 33
9
7 28
24 32 21
23
28 29
8
9 1
11 12 13
33 35 5
14 17 16
1
28 25
6 8
9
29 30 18
13 25 31
2
1 26
14 15
2 3
5
4 8 31
14
2
9
3 9
6 11
1 14
4481534
7 15
5
28 15
11 3
18
1 22
8
10 7
31 17
6 12
5 10
9
12 20 15 25
34 26 23 20 2 11
36 11 6 24 20 33
6 32 3 14 11
15 2 14 27 33 19 3
25 23 19 7 21 13 33 11 4
22 20 13 35 29 12 21 3 5
6 26 12
17 24
26 21
24 29
4
14 24 34
19 11 10
Design T84:
v = 15,
r = 9, k
=
9,
b = 15
13
3 36
30
8 16 36
28 18 32 16
34 29
5 10 4 21 18
33 16
n2
4
=
6, λι
27/40, C 1
E₁ = .96, E,
=
.94, E = .95
8,
P₁ ={ + 3]
P,
=
6, A₂ 4
4
P₁ = [ * ]
2
= 9/20, H = 152/9, A = 640/9
=
34 21 27
10 29 7
36
4 35
1 15 7 31
17 23
2 22
32
27 16 30 20 14 8 6
31 14
5 9 25 6 30 22 15 19
5 29 31
4 15
16 22
35 15 18 6
9 23
23 13
7 18
8
26 19 28 14
22 12
30 23
1
3 34 17 12
19 36
Solution: Nonresolvable
Complement: Design T61
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Association Scheme: T(6)
8 22
17
33 10 2 34
13 32
28 6
2 21 36 25 10
12 27
251
\n--- PAGE 00000264 ---\nTABLE XI. Partially balanced designs based on triangular association schemes - Continued
Design T86:
=
C1 1/5, C
v = 45, r = 2,
n₁ = 16, n,
=
1,
4 12
k
=
9,
b
=
=
28, A
=
λε
10
= 0
P₂
=
[
P₁ = 821]
Pi
-3/5, H= 28/9, ▲ = 20/9
E, .91, E, = .83, E = .86
=
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, k = 36
15
Dual: The BIB design (10,45,9,2,1), Roy and Laha
(1956)
Association Scheme: T(10)
Plan: 1 2 3
4
5
6
7
8 9
10 11 12
13
14 15
16
17 1
18 19 20
21
22
23
24
2
10
25 26 27
28
29
30
3
11
18
31 32 33
34
35
4
12
19 25
36 37 38
39
5
13
20
26 31
40 41 42 6
14
21
27
32 36
43 44 7
15
22
28
33 37 40
45 8 16
23
29
34
38
41 43
9 17 24 30
35 39
42
44 45
v = 45, r =
4, k = 9,
=
28, λ
=
2, λε
4 12
= 0
Design T87:
CI
=
1/5,
ni
=
=
16, n
8 7
b = 20
P.-[21] P.- [1]
P,
=
C 2 -3/5, H= 56/9, A = 80/9
E,= .91, E, = .83, E = .86
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 16
Dual: Design S16, a unique design
Association Scheme: T(10)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of T86.
Design T88:
=
1/5, C
V =
n₁ =
=
45,
r = 6,
k
28, A
16, n,=
7
P₁ =[ 821]
=
=
9,
15
3, λ,
b = 30
= 0
P‚= [ 4 132]
2
-3/5, H= 28/3, ▲ = 20
E,= .91, E₂ = .83, E = .86
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 24
Dual: Design S47, a unique design
Association Scheme: T(10)
Plan: Repeat the plan of T86 three times.
15
Design T89:
V = 45, r = 8, k
n₁ = 16, n,
=
9, b =
=
28, A₁
=
4, λε
40
= 0
8
P
1
21
15
C₁ = 1/5, Ca
=
E,= .91, E,
-
P₁ = [412]
2
-3/5, H= 112/9, A = 320/9
.83, E = .86
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Dual: Design S78, a unique design
Association Scheme: T(10)
Complement: Not listed, r
= : 32
Plan: Repeat the plan of T86 four times.
252
Design T90:
v = 45, r = 10, k = 9,
n₁ = 16, n¸ = 28, λ,
CI
=
E
1/5,
=
P.2]
821]
=
5, λε
b = 50
0
=
P.-[*]
= [412]
=
-3/5, H= 140/9, A
C:
= .91, E₂ = .83, E = .86
Solution:
Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 40
Dual: Design S122, a unique design
Association Scheme:
T(10)
500/9
Plan: Repeat the plan of T86 five times.
Design T91:
C₁ = 9/80,
v = 45, r = 9, k
n, = 16,
=
n:
7
P₁ = 8 21]
1
=
28, A, 1, A,
15
=
9, b = 45
= 2
P,= [ 4 13]
640/9
= 9/40, H= 152/9, A =
C:
=
= 36
15
E₁ = .90, E₂ = .91, E = .91
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Self dual, Hoffman (1963)
Association Scheme: Unspecified, but triangular
with parameter n = 10.
Plan:
S
=
A procedure exists for a construction of
the plan for this design but the details
are too involved for hand work. A
computer would be useful for identifying
the associate relations among the 495
distinct treatment-pairs. We shall be
content to describe the only known method
of construction. One starts with a
solution for the symmetric BIB design Ds
whose parameters are (v, b, r, k, λ)
(56,56,11,11,2), a solution having been
first found by Marshall Hall, Jr. (1968).
From Ds one derives an unsymmetrical
design Ď, with parameters (v, b, r, k, λ)
(45,55,11,9,2) by deleting one block
and all its treatments. One then
constructs a design D, from D, by
dualizing D, (renaming treatments blocks
and blocks, treatments). The inverted
design D is known to be a PBIB(2) from
a theorem due to Shrikhande (1952); and
from the work of Connor (1958), Shrikhande
(1959), Chang (1959,1960), and Hoffman
(1960) it is known to be based on a
triangular association scheme. Having
obtained design D, which has parameters
v = 55, b
45, n,= 18, n
=
r =
2
=
9, k = 11, λ,
9
=
-
1, λ,
=
36,
2,
P, [228] P₂ = [414]
Р
21
one can apply Lemma 1 of E. Seiden (1963)
to delete from D, all the treatments of
any row (column) of the triangular
association scheme associated with design
D. The effect of this deletion is to
remove 2 treatments from every block of
D and to totally remove 11 treatments
(without affecting any of the associate
relations among the residual treatments).
The resulting residual array provides a
plan for the present triangular design in
which the treatment symbols would not
(Plan continued on next page)
\n--- PAGE 00000265 ---\nTABLE XI. Partially balanced designs based on triangular association schemes - Continued
necessarily comprise the integers
1,2,...,56. Further, the associate
Plan:
12
13
14
15
16
17
v =
15,
8,
relations among the pairs of treatments
are unidentified although the association
scheme is known to be triangular.
The present construction technique is
described by Clatworthy (1968) for an
entire collection of four families of
designs, for which certain subsets of
four designs either exist simultaneously
or else fail to exist simultaneously.
Design T92:
C₁ =
3/4, Cz
n₁ =
=
P,{
Р
=
n:
4 37
3
=
6, λ, 3, λε
P₂
1/2, H = 38/5, ▲ =
E,= .97, E, = .95, E = .96
2
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design T48
Dual:
=
[
The BIB design (6,15,10,4,6), Roy and Laha
(1956)
Association Scheme: T(6)
9
19
11
16 17
18
10
11
13
14
15
19 20 21
11
21 15
17
18
14
13
20 8 15
7 14
10 12
13
222876
18 19 20 21
10 20 21 8
7
9
10
12
12 11
9 16 17 19
16 3
18
20 19
21
17 4 5 6
15
20
19
21
4
5 6 13 14
21
15
5
6
14
12
3 17 18 2
18
16 3
12
13
6
4 15 2 20
14
17
4
3
5
r =
4,
k = 10, b
=
6
19
4
10
21
6
20
11
=
2
3
6
17 11
8
10
21
4
1)
20
1
6 9
17
1
72/5
4
598
6
2
18027852
9
95
11
16
8
3
1
19 10 16
35830
12 13 19 16
9
1
1
18
5
4
18
4
21
7 5 11
2 14 6
15
20
1 7
9
6
11 15
13
19
4
2
13
1 14 10
12
7
1
823
1 15 7
10 14 1
13 4
43
16
13
229
11
3
17
8 7
V = 21, r = 10, k = 10, b = 21
10, n
=
10, λι
P]
P₁ =[ 5 ]
Design T95:
ni
=
Plan: 11
11 12 14 15 10
1 13
14
1
955574
84443m
723922
5 15
005800
6
6
9 10 6 12 13
55754
4442
33310
23929 ∞
628657
14 15
95/182, c₂
12
13
2 11 12
15
1 14
7 8 10 11 1
k
c₁ =
=
=
=
5, 2 4
4
P₂= [ ¹ º]
305/728, H = 187/10, ▲ = 2184/25
E,= .95, E, = .94, E = .94
2
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 11
Self dual, Hoffman (1963)
Solution:
Design T93:
v =
n₁ =
C₁ = 3/4,
c
=
2
=
E₁ = .97, E,
15,
8,
r = 8,
n2
4
=
P.3]
P, {
9313
6, λ,
=
=
=
10, b
6, λε 4
4
=
P.-[1
= ]
2
=[
1/2, H= 76/5, ▲ = 288/5
.95, E = .96
Solution: Unique; 4-resolvable
Complement: Design T49, a unique design
Dual: Design S58, a unique design
Association Scheme: T(6)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of T92.
Design T94: V = 21, r =
n₁ =
10, n
5 4
P,{
ย
=
10,入​ı
=
6, λε
4
· [ + ]
C₁ = 45/77, c₂ = 20/77, H = 183/10, A = 2079/25
E₁ = .96, E,
1
Solution:
= .92, E = .94
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Self dual, Hoffman (1963)
Association Scheme: T(7)
12
Dual:
Association Scheme:
T(7)
Plan:
2
3
1
19
457
3426
17
1
5642
675
12
72
13
6
18
3 5
8888
9 10 11
14
6
21
1
2
3
4
17 19
11 15
18
20
21 1 5
15
9 13
12
11 10
14
12
17
11
18
10
16
3
4800427
15
1
12
16
9
13
14
10
3
1
028
7
9
4
7 8
1
13
11 10
19 16
20
10
10, k
=
10, b = 21
8
= 3
7
1832
17 11 19 14
1
9
21
5
8
7
20 15
9
8
14
7 2
3 15
9
16
14
P,= [
5
10
7
21 12 15
18
12
11 20
9
20 3 8 18 19
14
5
10
19 8 21 16
24392
13
6
15
17
16 20
13 21
17 14 20 10
16 19
21
13
15 4 9 18
= 11
20
14
6
10
19
13427722E
7 6
21
16
15
653
17 18
20 19
13 19 17
21
12
11
2310∞
13
18
442
21
3
11
18 11 17 5 15
565
253
\n--- PAGE 00000266 ---\nTABLE XI. Partially balanced designs based on triangular association schemes -
– Continued
Design T96:
y =
55,
n₁ = 18,
[= 2,
n,= 36, A,
9 8
k
=
10, b = 11
=
1, λ, = 0
P
2
[
4 14
21
=
C
=
P₁
2/11, C₂ =
28
-7/11, H= 31/10, ▲ = 11/5
E₁ = .92, E₂ = .85, E = .87
2
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, k = 45
Dual: The BIB design (11,55,10,2,1), Roy and
Laha (1956)
Association Scheme: T(11)
Design T98:
=
2/11, C2
v = 55,
18, n
ni
=
r = 6, k
36, A,
=
=
10, b = 33
3, λη
0
=
P₁ = 928]
Р
=
P
4 141
=
= [ + 2/4]
=
21
-7/11, H= 93/10, ▲ = 99/5
E= .92, E, = .85, E = .87
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 27
Dual: Design S48, a unique design
Association Scheme: T(11)
Plan: Repeat the plan of T96 three times.
n₁ =
=
9 87
=
36, A, 4, λ. = 0
P.-[228] P.- [14]
P‚= 21
Plan: 1 2 3
4 5
11 12 13 14 15
20 21 22 23
24
28 29 30 31
32
35 36 37 38
39
41 42 43 44
45
46 47 48 49 6
50 51 52 7 16
53 54 8 17 25
55 9 18
26 33 39 44 48
10 19 27 34
ACENT wão
6
7
8
9 10
16 17
18 19 1
Design T99:
v = 55,
r = 8, k = 10,
b = 44
25
26 27 2
11
18, n
33
34
3
12
20
40 4
13
21 28
5 14
22
29 35
15 23
30 36 41
24 31 37
42 46
32
38 43
47 50
51 53
40 45 49 52 54 55
Design T97:
V = 55, r = 4,
ni
=
18, n
=
P. [ 928]
==
k
=
36, λ,
=
10, b = 22
= 0
2, λε
P₁ = [ 4 1/14]
c, = 2/11, c₂ -7/11, H= 31/5, A = 44/5
E,
.92, E,
.85, E = .87
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 18
Dual: Design S17, a unique design
Association Scheme:
T(11)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of T96.
21
=
C 1
C₁ = 2/11,
E, .92, E,
=
=
-7/11, H= 62/5, A = 176/5
.85, E = .87
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 36
Dual: Design S79, a unique design
Association Scheme: T(11)
Plan: Repeat the plan of T96 four times.
Design T100: v = 55, r = 10, k = 10, b = 55
CI
=
2/11,
ni
=
18, n
=
P₁ = 928]
36, A,
=
5, λε
= 0
4 14
P₁ = [ 21.
C 2 -7/11, H= 31/2, A = 55
=
E¸= .92, E¸ = .85, E = .87
2
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 45
Dual: Design S123, a unique design
Association Scheme: T(11)
Plan: Repeat the plan of T96 five times.
254
\n--- PAGE 00000267 ---\nReference
V
number
TABLE XII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes: parameters and auxiliary information
Efficiencies
Number
01
Ոչ
λι
λε
N = VT
Unique
solution
of solutions Complementary design
given
Li(n)
Dual designs
Ει
E2 E
Literature sources
LS1
5883
9
LS2
LS3
16
LS4
16
2
LS5
25
+LS6
36
10 2 180
LS7
9
2 3
2222223
2 18
2 36
2 48
ខទីនគិតគ
1
56 .45
2
56 45
53
72
6
9
0
1
48
2 100 8
16
45
10 25
.51
.45
LS8
9 4 3 12
LS9
9
LS10
333
3
18
3
LS11
9
10 3
62043
1
.75
.75
.75 60 .67
0 .75 60 .67
LS12
9 6 3 18
2
.71 .77
LS13
9
3
20
24
3 69
44484488888 F F
.50
.48
53 .51
.47
.47
60 .67
60 .67
0 .75 .60 .67 90 Yes
.74
.73
៨ ៩ ១១១១១៦៦១គ ម ម
36
Yes
1
NL, r=14
L₂ (3)
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
Clatworthy (1955).
50
72
Yes
1
NL, r=28
L₂ (3)
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
Clatworthy (1955).
96
No
1
NL, r=42
L: (4)
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
Clatworthy (1955).
144 No
1
NL. r-63
L2 (4)
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
Clatworthy (1955).
200
Yes
1
NL, r=92
L2 (5)
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
Clatworthy (1955).
360
Yes
1
NL, r=170
L2 (6)
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
Clatworthy (1955).
18
Yes
1
LS 72
L2 (3)
SR6.
36
Yes
1
LS 73
L₂ (3)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
BCS (1954).
54 Yes
1
NL, r=12
L2 (3)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
72 Yes
1
NL, r=16
L2 (3)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
1
NL, r=20
L2 (3)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
54 No
2
NL, r=12
L2 (3)
Sol. 1, 2: Irregular.
Yates (1936) (Clatworthy (1967)].
Clathworthy (1956).
BCS (1954).
Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 1: BCS (1954).
Sol. 2: Clatworthy (1967).
72 No
2 NL, r=16
L2 (3)
Sol. 1: not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
BCS (1954)
L2 (3)
Sol. 2: Irregular.
Clatworthy (1967).
LS14
9 10
3
30
2 3 .73 .76
.75
90 No
2 NL, r-20
L2 (3)
Sol. 1, 2: Irregular.
BCS (1954).
Clatworthy (1967).
LS15
9 10
3
30
1
4
.67
1
77 .72 90 ?
1 NL, r=20
L2 (3)
Irregular.
Chang and Liu (1964) [Clatworthy
(1967)).
LS16 16 6 3 32
6
2
0 .71 .59 .63
96 No
1 NL, r=26
L. (4)
Not a D(x), x =1, 2, 3.
LS17 16
9
3
48
20
.71 .65
.68
LS18
16 3 3
16
1
.59 .71
.63
LS19
16
3
32
2
.59
.71
.63
LS20 16 9
LS21 16
LS22 25
+ LS23 36
6
10
LS24 49 6
†LS25
81
8
3
wwwwww
48
2
65
.71
48
50
120
10
216
16
4202Y
9 6
0
59 .71 63
12 12
25
3 98 12 36 1
2234
64 67
2
.60
68 .60
1
68 .61 62
X X X XX.XXX
144
No
2
NL, r-39
L*3 (4)
48 ?
1 NL, r=13
L*3(4)
TSD.
Chang and Liu (1964)
[Clatworthy (1967)].
L3 (4) Sol 1, 2: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3. Sol. 1, 2: Clatworthy (1967).
BCS (1954).
96 No
144
144 ?
150 ?
웃을​~.~.
L*3 (4)
Sol. 1: a D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 1: Clatworthy (1956).
2 NL, r=26
(L3 (4)
Sol. 2: not a D(x), x =1, 2, 3.
No
1 NL, r=39
L2 (4)
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
1 NL, r=39
L*3 (4)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
1 NL, r=44
L3 (5)
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
360
Yes
1 NL, r=110
L2 (6)
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
294
Yes
1❘ NL, r=92
L2 (7)
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
648 Yes
1 NL, r=208
L2 (9)
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
Sol. i: LS49
L₂ (3)
Sol. 1, 2, 3: TSD.
LS26
9
9
1
2 .80
.87
.83
36 No
3Sol. i for i =
1, 2, 3
Sol. i: LS50
LS27
18
2
4
.80 .87
LS28
16
2
.80
.67
១ ឌ
.83
72 No
3
L (3) Sol. 1, 2, 3: a D(3), Clatworthy
Sol. i, i=1, 2, 3
.71
32 Yes
1 | NL, k=12
L₂ (4)
(1956).
SR 9.
Sol. 2: Clatworthy (1967).
Chang and Liu (1964).
Clatworthy (1956).
BCS (1954).
Chang and Liu (1964).
Clatworthy (1956).
Chang and Liu (1964).
Sol. 1: BCS (1954) (Vartak (1955)].
Sol. 2, 3: P. M. Roy (1954c).
Sol 1: BCS (1954).
Sol. 2, 3: P. M. Roy (1954c)
Yates (1936) [Clatworthy (1967)).
See footnote at end of table.
255
\n--- PAGE 00000268 ---\nTABLE XII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes: parameters and auxiliary information—Continued
Efficiencies
Number
λι
λ
N=VT
Unique
solution
of solutions Complementary design
given
Li(n)
E1
E
E
Dual designs
Literature sources
Reference
number
V
L3 (4)
LS29
16 3
4 12 9 6 1 0 80 73
.77
48 No
2 NL, k=12
L (4)
Sol. 1: SR 26 Sol. 1.
Sol. 2: SR 26 Sol. 2.
LS30
16
16
6
9
2
0 .80 .67
.71
LS 31
16
24
LS 32
16
6
24
22
9
6
2 0 .80 .73
6
3
0 .80 .67
LS 33
16
36
6
3
0
.80 .73 .77
LS 34
16
32
LS 35
16
10
40
6
LS 36
16
3
12
6
9
666
.80 .67 .71
0 .80 .67
1
.73 .80
ខ១១ ៨១ ៨
.71
F F F F F
64 Yes
1 NL, r=12
L2 (4)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
L3 (4)
96 No
2
NL, r=18
L3 (4)
Sol. 1, 2: A D(3), Clatworthy
(1956).
96 Yes
1
NL, r=18
L2 (4)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
L3 (4)
144 No
2
NL, r=27
(L (4)
Sol. 1, 2: A D(3), Clatworthy
(1956).
128 Yes
1
NL, r=24
L2 (4)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
.71 160 Yes
1
NL, r=30
L2 (4)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
.77 48 No
1
NL, k=12
L2 (4)
SR 26, Solution 1.
L2 (4)
Sol. 1: Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
LS 37
16
7
LS 38
16
220
28 6
9 2 1
.82
.78 .79
112 No
2
NL, r=21
(L2 (4)
Sol. 2: Irregular.
32
LS 39
166
36
6
LS 40
16
24
6
LS 41
16
28
9
69
G
G
G
2 1 .81 .78
.80
8
128 ?
1
NL, r=24
L (4)
Irregular.
Sol. 1: Yates (1936) [Clatworthy
(1967)).
Sol. 2: Shrikhande (1959).
Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 1: Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 2: Shrikhande (1959).
Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 1: Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 2: Shrikhande (1959).
Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy, new.
BCS (1954).
Clatworthy (1967).
BCS (1954).
L2 (4)
Sol. 1: Irregular.
BCS (1954).
3
1 .82 76
.78 144 No
3 NL, r=27
L2 (4)
Sol. 2: Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
Vartak (1955).
L2 (4)
Sol. 3: Irregular.
Clatworthy (1967).
6
2
LS 42
16
32
6
LS 43
16
36
9
LS 44
16
36 6 9
999
2
LS45
25
50
8 16
13
22233
.78
.78
3 .73
+LS46 49
98
+LS47 169
338
24
+LS48 256 10 4
640
2215
36
0
144
0
.75
30 225
1
RRPLR FRE
2 .73 .80 .77 96 No
.82
.79
F28
1
NL, r-18
L2 (4)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
112 ?
1 NL, r=21
L3 (4)
Irregular.
.81 .80 128 ?
1
NL, r=24
L2 (4)
Irregular.
Clatworthy, new.
Clatworthy (1967).
Clatworthy (1967).
.76 82 .78 144 ?
1
NL, r=27
L3 (4)
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1967).
.80 .77 144 No
1
NL, r=27
L2 (4)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy, new.
0 .78 67 .70
200 Yes
1
NL, r=42
L2 (5)
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
Chang and Liu (1964).
.77 68 .70 392 Yes
1
NL, r=90
L2 (7)
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
Chang and Liu (1964).
.70
.71 1352 Yes
1
NL, r=330
L2 (13)
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
0 .75 .71
.72 2560 Yes
1
NL, r=630
L2 (16)
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
LS49
Sol. i: LS26,
L2 (3)
Sol. 1, 2, 3: TSD.
9 5 5 9
4
2
3 .88 .92
.90
45 No
Chang and Liu (1964).
Chang and Liu (1964).
JSol. 1: BCS (1954).
3
Sol. i, i=1, 2, 3.
Sol. i: LS27,
L2 (3)
LS50
Sol. 1, 2, 3: a D(3), Clatworthy
9
10
5
18
6 .88 .92 .90
90 No
3
Sol. i, i=1, 2, 3.
(1956).
LS51
25
LS52
25
LS53
25
LS54
25
LS55
LS56
25
LS57
25
LS58
25
22222222
234
55555555
10
15 12
8 2
16
12
62
0
.83
.71
0
.83
.77
FF
.75
50 Yes
1
NL, k=20
L₂ (5)
SR 11.
.80
75 No
1
NL, r=12
L3 (5)
SR 28.
20
16
8
0
.83
.79 .82
100 ?
1
NL, r=16
L, (5)
SR 46.
20
30 12 12
8 16
40
30
45
2682
22
0
.83 .71 .75
100 Yes
1
NL, r=16
La (5)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
.83
.77
.80
16 8 2
.83 .79 .82 200 ?
នគ
150 No
1
NL, r=24
L3 (5)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
NL, r=32
L. (5)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
16 3
12 12
33
83 71 .75 150 Yes
1 NL, r-24
L2 (5)
0
83 .77 .80
225 No
NL, r-36
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
L3 (5) A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 2, 3: P.M. Roy (1954c).
(Sol. 1: BCS (1954).
Sol. 2: P.M. Roy (1954c).
Sol. 3: P.M. Roy (1954c).
Yates (1936) [Clatworthy (1967)].
Yates (1936) [Clatworthy (1967)].
Yates (1936) [Clatworthy (1967)].
Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956), Clatworthy (1967).
Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956).
256
\n--- PAGE 00000269 ---\n
LS59
LS60
LS61
2235
10
94
ссся
16
5 50
16
5
83
5
20
16
.79 .83
FF
888
.71
.75
200 Yes
NL, r=32
L2 (5)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
.71
.75
250 Yes
1
NL, r=40
L2 (5)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
.82
100 ?
1
NL, r=16
L2 (5)
A design with the parameters of
LS62
25
5
40
166
2 1 .85 .82
.83
200 ?
1 NL, r=32
L2 (5) Irregular.
LS63
25 10
5
50
16
3
1 .85 .81 .82 250 ?
1 ML r=40
L2 (5) Irregular.
5
LS64
25
LS65
25
LS66
223
9
25 10
555
16
2
45
5
មគ
12 12
50 8 16
111
2
222
.79
.82
288
.83
.82
.84
.83
1 2 .82 .84 .83
888
200 ?
1
NL, r=32
L2 (5)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
225 ?
1
NL, r=36
La (5)
250 ?
1
NL, r=40
L2 (5)
Irregular.
Irregular.
LS67
36 10 5 72 10 25
0
.82 .72 .75
360 Yes
1 NL, r=62
L2 (6) Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
LS68
LS69
+LS70 121
ទី៩៖
36
5
СЯ
5
36
10
5
10
3225
36 15 20
.79 .82 .81
180 ?
1
NL, r=31
Ls (6)
SD, Hoffman (1963).
72
15 20
2
.79
.82
.81
360 ?
1
NL, r=62
L3 (6)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
5 242 20 100
2
0
.81
.74
.75 1210 Yes
1
NL, r=232
L2 (11)
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
+LS71 441 10
882
40 400
.80
.77
.77 4410 Yes
1
NL, r=872
L2 (21)
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
LS72
LS73
12
LS74
LS75
LS76
36
LS77
LS78
LS79
LS80
LS81
LS82
LS83
តតតតតតតតត
12
622
2
95
.91
.93 36 Yes
1 LS7
L2 (3)
SR35.
95 .91 .93
72 Yes
1
LS8
La (3)
A D(3) Clatworthy (1956).
10
18
15
24
10 25
36
15 20
36
10 25
15 20
10
25
10
6
6
68
10
25
18
30
16
7
7 16
6
222222248"
86
.75
.78
72 Yes
1
NL, k=30
L2 (6)
SR13.
SR 46 and nonstandard asso-
ciation scheme.
Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956).
Clarworthy, new.
Chang and Liu (1964) [Clatworthy
(1967)].
Chang and Liu (1964) [Clatworthy
(1967)).
Clatworthy, new.
Clatworthy (1967).
Chang and Liu (1964) [Clatworthy
(1967)).
Chang and Liu (1964) (Clatworthy
(1967)].
BCS (1954).
Clatworthy (1956).
Chang and Liu (1964).
Chang and Liu (1964).
BCS (1954) [Clatworthy (1967)].
BCS (1954).
Yates (1936).
.86 .80
.82
108 No
1
NL, r=15
L3 (6)
SR30.
2
.86
.75 .78
144 Yes
1
NL, r=20
L2 (6)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
2
.86
.80
.82
216 No
1
NL, r=30
L3 (6)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Yates (1936) [Clatworthy (1967)].
Clatworthy (1956), (1967).
Clatworthy (1956), (1967).
86
.75
.78
216 Yes
1
NL, r=30
L2 (6)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
.86
.80 .82
324 No
1
NL, r=45
L3 (6)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956), (1967).
Clatworthy (1956), (1967).
.86
.75 .78
288 Yes
1
NL, r=40
L2 (6)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
5
.86
.75 .78
360 Yes
1
NL, r=50
L2 (6)
9
2
.82 .85 .84
.93 .89
294 ?
1
NL, r=43
L3 (7)
.91 112 ?
1 LS116
L2 (4)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
SD, Hoffman (1963).
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971).
LS84
2
LS85
23
LS86
LS87
7777
LS88
LS89
49
7 28
LS90
42
VELKYN
14 12
21 18
28 24
35
30
TECHNIE
36
30
24
.87
888
.87 .78 .80 98 Yes
.82
.84
.84
.86
18
.87 .85
.86
36
12
.87 .85
.87
12
36
2
.87 .78 .80
18
30
2
0
.87 .82 .84
ន 8 ឌ ឌ ឌ នម
1
NL, r=12
L2 (1)
SR14.
147 No
1
NL, r=18
L3 (7)
SR31.
196
No
1
NL, r=24
L, (7)
SR48.
245 ?
1
NL, r=30
Ls (1)
SR62.
294 ?
1
NL, r=36
Lo (7)
SR77.
196 Yes
1
NL, r=24
L2 (7)
294
No
1
NL, r=36
L3 (7)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
LS91
7
56
24
24
2
0 .87 .84 .86
392 No
1 NL, r-48
4(7)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
LS92
10
7
70
LS93
6 7
42
LS94
49
9
7
63
1280
30 18
2
36
30
233
0
.87
.85
.86
490 ?
1
NL, r=60
Ls (7)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
3
0 .87 .78 80
294 Yes
1
NL, r=36
L2 (7)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
0
.87 .82
.84
441 No
1
NL, r=54
L3 (7)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956), (1967).
Clatworthy (1956), (1967).
Yates (1936) [B.C.S. (1954)].
Bose and Nair (1939), p 369
[Vartak (1955), Clatworthy (1956)].
Yates (1936) [Clatworthy (1967)].
Yates (1936) [Clatworthy (1967)].
Yates (1936) [Clatworthy (1967)].
Yates (1936) [Clatworthy (1967)].
Yates (1936) [Clatworthy (1967)].
Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956) [Clatworthy
(1967)].
Clatworthy (1956) [Clatworthy
(1967)].
Clatworthy (1956), (1967).
Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956), (1967).

See footnote at end of table.
257
\n--- PAGE 00000270 ---\nTABLE XII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes: parameters and auxilliary information—Continued
Efficiencies
Number
Reference
number
በ2
λι
λ
N = vr
Unique
solution
of solutions Complementary design
given
Li(n)
Dual designs
Literature sources
E₁
E₂
E
LS95
49
8
7 56
LS96
49 10
7
70
LS97
49 10
7 70
1995
222
36
36
36
99905
5
452
0
.87
.78
0 .87
.78
1 .88
ឌ៨៨
.80
.80
.87 .87
888
392 Yes
1
NL, r=48
L2 (7)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956).
490 Yes
1
NL, r=60
L2 (7)
490 ?
1
NL, r=60
L2 (7)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1956).
Chang and Liu (1964) [Clatworthy
(1967)].
LS98
16 6
8 12
6
9 4
2
.95 .91.93 96 ?
1 TSC
L2 (4) SR 69, Sol. 3.
LS99
16 9
8 18
9 6 5
3
3
.94 .91 .93
LS100
16 9
LS101 25 8
8
25
11:23
18 6
9
3
5
.91 .94 .93
8 16
3
2
.92 .90 .91
LS102 64
2
LS103 64 3
23
16
8
24
LS104 64
4
8
32
28
LS105
64
СЯ
5 8 40 35 28
LS106
6
48
42
12232
14 49
0
.89
42
0
.89
888
.80
.82
.84
.86
285 28
144 No
TSC, Sol. 1
L3 (4)
SR 100, Sol. 1.
2
TSC, Sol. 2
L*3 (4)
SR 100, Sol. 2.
144 No
1
TSC
L2 (4)
SR 100, Sol. 3.
200 ?
1
NL, r=17
L2 (5)
SD, Hoffman (1963).
128 Yes
1| NL, r=14
L2 (8)
SR15.
192 ?
1| NL, r=21
L3 (8)
SR32.
35
0
.89
.86 .87 256 ?
1
NL, r=28
L, (8)
SR49.
21
0 .89 .86 .88 320 ?
.89
1
NL, r=35
Ls (8)
SR63.
.87 .88
384 ?
1
NL, r=42
Ls (8)
SR78.
LS107
56
49
14
.89 .87 .89
448 ?
1
NL, r=49
L7 (8)
SR88.
LS108
4
8
32 14 49
2 0 .89
.80 .82
256 Yes
NL, r=28
L2 (8)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
LS109
6
8
48 21 42
2 0
.89
.84 .86
384 ?
1
NL, r=42
L3 (8)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
LS110
8
64 28 35
2
LS111
10
80
35 28
LS112
6
48
14
49
LS113
64 9
72 21
42
LS114
8
8
64
14
49
LS115
10
LS116
16
09
8 80 14 49
9
16
6 9
6
2233456
0
.89
.86
.87
512 ?
1
NL, r=56
L, (8)
2 0
.89
86 .88
640 ?
1
NL, r=70
Ls (8)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
0
.89
80 .82
384 Yes
1
NL, r=42
L2 (8)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
0
.89 .84 .86
576 ?
1
NL, r=63
L2 (8)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
0 .89
.80 .82
512 Yes
1
NL, r=56
L2 (8)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
0
.89 .80 .82
640 Yes
1
NL, r=70
L2 (8)
.96
.94
.95
144 No
1
LS83
L2 (4)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971).
LS117
25
9
9
25
16
5
2 .94 .90
.92
302
225 ?
1 NL, r=16
L2 (5) SD, Hoffman (1963).
Chang and Liu (1964) [Clatworthy
(1967)].
Sol. 1: Clatworthy (1967).
Sol. 2: Clatworthy, new.
Chang and Liu (1964).
Bose and Nair (1939) (Liu (1963),
Chang and Liu (1964)].
Yates (1936) [Clatworthy (1967)].
Yates (1936) [Clatworthy (1967)].
Yates (1936) [Clatworthy (1967)].
Yates (1963) [Clatworthy (1967)].
Yates (1936) [Clatworthy (1967)].
Yates (1936) [Clatworthy (1967)].
Clatworthy (1956), (1967).
Clatworthy (1956), (1967).
Clatworthy (1956), (1967).
Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956), (1967).
Vartak (1955) (Clatworthy (1956)].
Bose and Nair (1939) [Liu (1963)
Chang and Liu (1964)].
258
\n--- PAGE 00000271 ---\nLS118
49
G
©
49 12 36
3
1
.92
30
.89 .90
441
?
Pes
1 | NL, r=40
L2 (7)
LS119 81
2
18 16
LS120 81
3
9
27 24
LS121 81
36 32
48
LS122
81
45 40 40
LS123
81
32
នគិតខ
64
0 .90
.82
56
.90
.86
8838
.83
162 Yes
1
NL, r-16
L₂ (9)
SR16.
.87
243 ?
1
NL, r-24
L3 (9)
SR33.
0
90 .87
.88
324 ?
1
NL, r-32
L, (9)
SR50.
0 .90 .88
.89
405 ?
1
NL, r-40
L₁ (9)
SR64.
0 .90
.88 .89
486 ?
1
NL, r-48
Lo (9)
SR79.
LS124
81
56
24
0 90
89
.90
567 ?
1
NL, r-56
L7 (9)
SR89.
LS125
81
72 64 16
0
.90 89
.90
648 ?
1
NL, r-64
Lg (9)
SR98
LS126
81
36
16 64
0 90
.82
.83
324❘ Yes
1
NL, r-32
L2 (9)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
LS127
81
54
24
56
2
0
90
.86 .87
486 ?
1 NL, r-48
L3 (9)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
LS128
81
8
72
32
48
2
0 .90
.87
.88
648 ?
1
NL, r-64
L, (9)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
SD Archbold and Johnson (1956). Vartak (1955), Archbold and Johnson
Yates (1936) [Clatworthy (1967)].
Yates (1936) [Clatworthy (1967)].
Yates (1936) [Clatworthy (1967)].
Yates (1936) [Clatworthy (1967)].
Yates (1936) [Clatworthy (1967)].
Yates (1936) (Clatworthy (1967)].
Yates (1936) [Clatworthy (1967)).
Clatworthy (1956), (1967).
Clatworthy (1956), (1967).
Clatworthy (1956), (1967).
V (1956).
LS129
81 10
90
40
40
2
0 90
.88
.89
810 ?
NL, r-80
L₁ (9)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
LS130 81
6
54 16
64
3
0 .90
.82
.83
486 Yes
NL, r-48
L2 (9)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956), (1967).
Clatworthy (1956), (1967).
LS131 81
9
81
24
56
0
90
.86
.87
729 ?
1
NL, r-72
L3 (9)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956), (1967).
LS132
81
72
16 64
0 90 .82
.83
648 Yes
1
NL, r=64
L₂ (9)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
LS133 81 10
9
LS134 100
9
9
100
LS135 25
8
10 20
2020
1120
90 16 64
0
.90 .82
.83
810 Yes
1
NL, r-80
L2 (9)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
27
72
8 16
05
89 .90
89
900 ?
NL, r-91
(*)
2 .96
.92
.93
200 ?
1 NL, r=12
L2 (5)
A D(3) Speckman (1970).
LS136 36 10
10 36 10 25
2
.94 .92 .92
360 ?
1 NL, r=26
L2 (6)
(?).
LS138 100
LS137 100 2 10 20 18 81
3 10 30 27 72
LS139 100
LS140 100
2922
0 .91
0
.91
66
.83
.85
200 Yes
1
NL, r-18
L2 (10)
SR 17.
.87
88
300 ?
1
NL, r=27
L3 (10)
SR 34.
10 40 36 63
0 91
.88 .89
400 ?
NL, r-36
L (10)
SR 51.
10 40 18 81
0
.91
.83
.85
400 Yes
1
NL, r-36
L2 (10)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956), (1967).
Clatworthy (1956), (1967).
BCS (1954).
Chang and Liu (1964) [Clatworthy
(1967)).
Bose and Nair (1939) (Liu (1963)
Chang and Liu (1964)].
Yates (1936) [Clatworthy (1967)].
Yates (1936) [Clatworthy (1967)].
Yates (1936) [Clatworthy (1967)].
Clatworthy (1956) (1967).
LS141 100
10
60 27 72
0
.91
.87 .88
600 ?
1
NL, r-54
L3 (10)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956) (1967).
LS142 100
LS143 100
LS144 100
8 10
10
9
10
LS145 100
8 10
LS146 100 10 10
22222
100
៩៖ ម ខ គ
80
36
63
2
0
60
18
81
0
66
.91 .88 .89
800 ?
1
NL, r-72
L, (10)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956) (1967).
91
.83
.85
600 Yes
NL, r-54
La (10)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956) (1967).
90
27
72
0
.91
.87
.88
900 ?
1
NL, r-81
L3 (10)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956) (1967).
80
18
81
0
.91 .83 .85
800 Yes
1
NL, r-72
L₂ (10)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956) (1967).
18
81
5
0 .91 .83 .85
1000❘ Yes
1
NL, r-90
L2 (10)
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956) (1967).
*The association scheme for LS 134 is nonstandard and is given with the plan in Table XIII.
+ Plan not verified by computer.
259
\n--- PAGE 00000272 ---\nTABLE XIII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes
Design LS1:
C1
E,
=
=
V = 9,
4,
n₁ =
r = 4,
k 2,
b
=
18
4,
λ
=
1,
=
0
n2
1
=
P. { ¹ 2]
-2/9, H= 9/2, A
2/9, c
.56, E,
=
2
=
.45, E = .50
λε
2
P₁ = [ 2 ]
=
2
9/2
Plan:
24921245
13567836
10
11
16
15
4357OWEE
12869234
12347892
345656E
10
11
15
16
11
10
Solution:
Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Association Scheme:
Plan:
L₂(3)
=
14
459683127
123456789
231745896
123456789
8
=
=
-
2,
b = 36
2, A2
2
=
[ ² 2]
0
Design LS2:
=
=
2/9,
n
=
v = 9,
4,
=
P₁
r =
8,
k
na
=
4,
λι
P,
1 2
2
C 2 -2/9, H= 9, A = 18
E, .56, E,
.45, E = .50
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual:
Not a D(x), x =
= 28
1, 2, 3
Association Scheme: L₂(3)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS1.
13 1
15
16
14
434
5
6
12
32567820
8
1232603
9O14575
10
11
567839
123
4
9 13
14 10
11
15
12
16
14 16
10 11
*Remark: Design M2 has the same parameters but
an association scheme of the pseudo
Latin square type. The two designs are
nonisomorphic; hence the present
design is not unique.
Design LS4:
v =
ni
16,
= 6,
r =
n2 =
2 3
6
P₁ ={ 930
=
-1/16, c₂
=
=
E, .48, E,
Solution:
9,
9,
λι
k =
2, b = 72
=
=
0, λη 1
²
P.-[2]
=
1/8, H = 10, A = 24
.53, E = .51
Nonunique'; resolvable
=
Complement: Not listed, r € 63
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Association Scheme: L₂(4)
Plan: 1 6
Design LS3:
11 16
v = 16,
r =
6,
k
= 2,
b
=
48
2 5
n
=
6,
1
n2
9, A
=
1, λη
#
0
CI
=
=
P₁-[ 2 ] - [24]
1/8, C2
E,= .53, E₂ = .44, E =
-1/4, H= 6, A
Solution:
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Not a D(x), x =
Association Scheme: L₂(4)
Nonunique'; resolvable
=
=
12 15
3
6
P₂
3
8
= 8
9 14
4 7
10 13
122130+a
7
1 8
12 14
10
15
8
2 7
13
9 16
5
3
6
10 16
12 13
4
6
4
5
9 15
11 14
.48
1 11
1 12
1 10
6 16
7 14
8 15
42
2 12
2 11
2 9
1, 2
5 15
8 13
7 16
3 9
3 10
3 12
8 14
5 16
6 13
4 10
4 9
4 11
7 13
6 15
5 14
1 16
1 14
1 15
6 11
7 12
8 10
2 15
2 13
2 16
5 12
3 14
83
8 11
7 9
16
3 13
8
9
5 10
6 12
4 13
4 15
4 14
7 10
6 9
5 11
*Remark: See design M5 for a design with the
same parameters but having a pseudo
Latin square association scheme. The
two plans are nonisomorphic.
260
\n--- PAGE 00000273 ---\nTABLE XIII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes - Continued
Design LS5:
n
v = 25,
8,
r =
8,
k
=
2,
b = 100
=
2
16, λ,
=
1, λη
0
12
P₁ =
2
CI
=
1/3,
c
=
2
-1/3, H= 3, A
=
2
=
E, .75, E,
2
= .60, E = .67
C₁ = 2/25, C 1
-
=
P,{
3 4
2 6
=
[ ² 9]
-6/25, H= 15/2, ▲ = 25/2
E₁ = .52, E, = .45, E = .47
= 92
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Association Scheme: L₂(5)
Solution: Unique; affine resolvable
Complement: Design LS72
Dual: Design SR6
Association Scheme: L,(3)
Plan:
789
456
123
369
258
147
Plan:
23451789
123456789
11
16
21
12
10
10
6
POUR 27272~
1 6
6 11
16
21
1
7
12
17
17 22
10
314258697
142536979
12772
1 11
16 1
6 16
21
6
11
21
12
2
17
7
2
8
10
12
22
Dual:
11 12
3
8
11
13
3 13
12 13
8 13
14
11
18
33
13 14
13
18
12
14
8 18
14
15
18
23
15 12
23
8
15 11
23 3
13
15
13
23
16
17
4
9
17
18
9 14
18
19
14 19
21
22222222
19
20
19 24
20 16
24
4
22
5 10
23
10 15
23 24
15 20
24 25
25 21
20
25
25 5
PARERE2222
16
18
4
14
19
16
19
4
17
19
9 19
20 17
18 20
21 23
24 21
25
23
2222222
24
9
14 24
5 15
20
5
24
10 20
25
10
25
15
25
Dual:
Design LS8:
=
1/3, C
v =
9,
n₁ = 4,
=
P
r =
n₂ =
1 2
20
4,
4,
k
λι
= 3, b = 12
=
=
2, λη 0
P₁- [23]
-1/3, H= 6, A = 8
E, .75, E, = .60, E = .67
Solution:
Unique; resolvable
Complement: Design LS73
A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(3)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS7.
Design LS9:
=
1/3, C2
=
V = 9,
n, = 4,
r =
P
=
1
n2
1 21
20
6,
4,
-1/3, H= 9, A
E,= .75, E₂ = .60, E = .67
=
-
k = 3,
b: 18
λι
P₂
2
=
=
3,
=
λε 0
[ 2 232]
[
=
18
= 12
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L₂(3)
Repeat the plan of LS7 three times.
Design LS10: v= r = 8,
.6
20
k
=
3,
b
=
24
4, n =
2
4,
λι
=
=
1 2
Pi
P
2
4, λε
2 21
Design LS6:
=
1/18,
v = 36,
=
r = 10, k 2,
b
ni
=
10, n
4
=
25, A,
=
1, λε
P
=
25]
20
C 2 -2/9, H= 9, A
E,= .51, E, = .45, E = .47
=
=
P₁ = [ 28 ]
= 18
Solution: Unique; 5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 170
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Association Scheme:
L,(6)
16
180
Plan:
0
=
180 blocks
Plan: From the six treatments within each row
and from within each column of the L,(6)
association scheme, form the (2)
blocks consisting of all possible distinct
treatment-pairs.
The 12(15)
so formed constitute the plan. The 90
blocks arising from the rows provide five
replications and those from the columns
provide five others.
Design LS7:
v = 9,
n₁ =
4,
r = 2, k = 3, b = 6
=
n2
=
1
4, λι
1, λε
=
=
P.- 2] P.- [22]
Pi
C₁ =
1/3, C
=
=
=
-1/3, H= 12, A 32
E,= .75, E, = .60, E = .67
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual:
A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(3)
= 16
=
[
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS7 four times.
261
\n--- PAGE 00000274 ---\nTABLE XIII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes - Continued
Design LS11: v=
=
ni
=
10, k = 3,
9,
r =
b
=
=
4,
n:
1
=
4, λι
=
5,
λε
=
30
0
P.-[2] P.-[2]
Pi
=
C: -1/3, H= 15, A = 50
.75, E, = .60, E = .67
CI 1/3,
E,
=
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L₂(3)
= 20
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS7 five times.
Design LS12: v= 9,
n₁ =
4,
r = 6,
=
k 3,
4,
λι
=
01
1
=
P₁ = ¹ 2]
1, λε
2
b = 18
= 2
P‚= [ ² }]
2
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 16
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Association Scheme: L,(3)
Plan:
663
258
369
582
147
2
9
8 3
6
594
123
594
123
231
867
456
852
867
174
645
963
123
123
9
3
6
456
147
978
789
789
=
CI 1/5, c
E, = .71, E,
=
2/5, H= 9, ▲ = 20
=
2
.77, E = .74
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: L₂(3)
Plan:
2
= 12
Solution 2:
As given by Clatworthy (1967);
nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: L,(3)
Plan: To construct, use
= 16
231
168
645
693
258
147
7
8
978
645
123
582
147
369
3
456
123
7
2
3
168
471
369
258
8 9
Set 3.1
once
Set 3.2
once
Set 3.3
3 times
Solution 2: As given by Clatworthy (1967);
nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: L₂(3)
Plan: To construct, use
Set 3.1 once
Set 3.2 once
Set 3.3
twice
=
12
Set 3.4 3 times
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS14: v= 9,
ni
Р
CI
=
11/42,
C₂ =
=
r = 10, k
=
4,
na
=
4, A,
1 2
P₂
=
2
=
=
3,
2,
[
2
λε
b = 30
= 3
=
56
8/21, H = 15, A
E, .73, E, = .76, E = .75
Solution 1: As presented in BCS (1954);
nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 20
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: L,(3)
Set 3.4 twice
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS13: v = 9,
r = 8,
k
=
ni
=
4,
=
=
1 2
3
P,
=
3,
n2 4, X, 1, λ,
b
= 24
=
P₁ = [ 2 }]
2
C 2 43/105, H= 12, A = 35
.77, E = .73
c, = 11/105,
E₁ = .69, E,
=
(Plan continued on next page)
262
\n--- PAGE 00000275 ---\nTABLE XIII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes - Continued
Plan:
168
129
891
6
735
924
8
843
195
573
249
2
7
627
195
843
249
924
924
168
189
689
1
573
573
198
573
129
924
924
195
198
6
6
843
7
735
3
3
573
5
Solution:
Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 26
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Association Scheme: L,(4)
Plan: Cyclically develop the following eight
initial blocks
1 2 3
5 6 7
9 10 11
13
14 15
1
5 9
Solution 2:
As given by Clatworthy (1967);
nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 20
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: L,(3)
Plan: To construct, use
Set 3.1 twice
Set 3.2
twice
Set 3.3 3 times
Set 3.4 3 times
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS15: v = 9,
n₁ = 4,
CI
=
1/27, C₂
E,= .67, E,
Solution:
=
Р
=
4, λι
1,
r =
n₂ =
10, k = 3,
=
1 2
21
b = 30
=
A₂ 4
P₁ = [ 2 }]
11/27, H = 15, A = 54
.77, E = .72
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: L,(3)
Plan: To construct, use
Set 3.1 once
Set 3.2 once
= 20
13 1 5
9 13 1
5 9 13
using cycles of length 4 and cycling
within four subsets of treatments 1-4,
5-8, 9-12, and 13-16. Each position
within blocks contains two replications,
and the first (last) four initial blocks
provide three replications.
Design LS17: v= 16, r = 9, k = 3, b = 48
C₁ =
3/16, C2
ni
=
9, n, 6, λ,
4 4
= 2, λε
6
=
P.-P.-[2]
=
P,=
-3/32, H= 40/3, A = 128/3
E,= .71, E, = .65, E = .68
Solution 1: As given by Clatworthy (1967);
nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 39
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Association Scheme: L,(4)
Plan: To the 32 blocks of design LS16 annex the
following 16 blocks:
1 6 11
16 1 6
11
16
1
6 11
16
2 5
12
15
2
12
15
5 12
15
3 8
14
3
8
9
14
3
625259∞
8 9 14
4 7 10
13
4 7
10
13 4
Set 3.3 4 times
Set 3.4 4 times
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS16: v = 16,
C₁ =
n₁ = 6,
r = 6,
k
01
=
P₁ = 2 3]
3/16,
C2
=
E, .71, E,
=
9, λ,
-3/8, H= 8, A
.59, E = .63
=
-
ཉྭ་
2, λε
b = 32
P,= [ 2 ]
=
128/9
0
7 10 13
Remark: This solution for LS17 is, upon
renaming of the associate classes,
combinatorially equivalent to Solution 1
for LS20.
Solution 2:
Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Association Scheme: L;(4)
39
(Plan continued on next page)
263
\n--- PAGE 00000276 ---\nTABLE XIII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes - Continued
Plan: Cyclically develop the following twelve
initial blocks
1
5
9
10
13
14
1
26045
11
15
13
1
371595.
5
9 13
1
5 9 13
1
6 11
5 10 15
9 14 3
13 2 7
using cycles of length 4 and cycling
within four subsets of treatments 1-4,
5-8, 9-12, and 13-16. Each position
within blocks contains three replications.
Remark: Design LS17, Solution 2 with the names
of its associate classes interchanged
but its plan retained intact has a
pseudo Latin square type association
scheme and is recorded as design M13
where its association scheme is provided
by the blocks.
Design LS18: v=
Design LS19: v=
16,
= 9,
= J
n₂ =
6,
6, λι
k = 3,
=
λη
b = 32
= 2
4
3
CI
E,
= -3/8,
ni
P. + 2]
=
0,
P‚= [ 6 ³]
2
3/16, H = 8, A = 128/9
= .59, E, = .71, E = .63
2
Solution 1: Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 26
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L;(4)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS18.
Solution 2: Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 26
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Association Scheme: L,(4)
Plan: 1 7 12
14 1
27
0815627-332
8150270632
15087
12
14 1
7
12
14
8
13
11
2
9
13
8
16 9
16,
r = 3,
k = 3, b =
16
2
11
2
9
n₁ =
9,
n2
=
=
10
3
12
5
10
16
6
3
5
10
3
16
5
13
3
6
15
9
6
14
11 5
4
15 9
4
14 11
Nonresolvable
469
15
5
4 14
4
11
4
4 4
P₁ = + 2]
6, λ 0, λε 1
P₁
=
6 3
·= [ ° ³]
32/9
C₁ =
-3/8, C₂
=
3/16, H= 4, A
E,= .59, E, = .71, E = .63
Solution:
Complement: Not listed, r = 13
Dual: Truly self dual
Association Scheme: L;(4)
12813Konmay46
Plan:
10
16
11
13
12
14
9
15
13
14
15
16
78564123
7856
6345
785
9
10
6
5
11
12
2 16
3
13
4 14
1 15
41239012
Remark: The design M8, which has the same
parameters as design LS18 except that
the names of the associate classes are
interchanged, has a pseudo Latin square
association scheme. The present design
cannot be constructed by use of the
L,(4) association scheme (as can be
seen by considering the r 3 blocks
=
that contain any treatment a). It is
not known whether designs LS18 and
M8 are combinatorially equivalent.
Design LS20: v = 16,
n₁ = 6,
n2
r = 9,
-
9,
λι
P₁ =[ 23 ]
с =
1
-3/32, C₂
=
=
E₁ = .65, E,
Solution:
k = 3,
=
0, λ₂
2
b = 48
P‚= [ ² 4]
2
3/16, H = 40/3, ▲ = 128/3
.71, E = .68
Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 39
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Association Scheme: L₂(4)
Plan:
1 6 11
16 1 6
11 16
6 11 16
25
1
12
2
5
15
2
12
15
11
15
12
8
11
3 8
14
3
9
14
652529343
142723-∞mbos4596
27141823OL360645
7142823-530459
1
15
10
16
9
50826-7332
13
12
6
4
8150726а63325
9
=
2
081597202633;
8
8 9 14
307
7 10
31
10 16
6 9
11
14 4 5
11 14 4
14
5 11
4 7
13
10 13
264
\n--- PAGE 00000277 ---\nTABLE XIII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes - Continued
Design LS21: v=
-3/8, c
2
16,
n₁ = 9,
r =
n2
4 4
=
P₁ =[ + ]
=
9,
6, λι
k =
3,
b = 48
0,
λε
= 3
6
P‚= [ ' 3]
2
3/16, H = 12, A = 32
E, .59, E, = .71, E = .63
=
Solution:
3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme:
L;(4)
= 39
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS18 three times.
Design LS22: v =
=
ni
=
25,
r =
6,
k
12, n₂ =
P₁ { 5 6 ]
3/25, c₂ =
1
12, A₁
=
=
2
3,
b
=
1, λη
= 0
6
P‚= [ ' §]
2
-3/25, H= 25/3, A =
E,= .69, E, = .64, E = .67
Solution:
3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 44
1, 2
Dual: Not a D(x), x =
Association Scheme: L,(5)
Plan:
123455IRL LR22
512
25
22222217234
34512
1234
13
15
11
B4E1222222
3
4
5
14
9
15
12
11
15 10
11 13
23
11 6
12 14
12
13
15
25
13
8
14 11
24
23
18
24
6
25
24 19
25
7
21 25 20
21 23
8
21 16
22 24 9
23
23
25 10
8
8
20
9
6 16
PA2222222700
1222220org
BOKEP4SI23
9
10
9
6
10
10 7 17
6 8 18
7 6 1
7 9 19
17 16
11
17 19
18 17
12
18
5
19
18
13
19 16
1
20
14
20 17
16
20 15
16 18
50/3
Plan:
Use the unique BIB design (6,10,5,3,2) whose
10 blocks are:
a b c
a be
ac f
ade
ad f
b c d
bd f
bef
c de
=
3/49, C2
50
cef
as a model for constructing 12 BIB designs
one from the treatments of each row and
one from the treatments of each column of
the association scheme L₂(6).
The 60
blocks arising from the rows of the
association scheme constitute five
replications and those arising from the
columns, five others.
Design LS24: v = 49,
ni
=
12, n
r = 6, k
36, λ,
6
=
P₁ = 530]
Pi
=
=
=
ཉ་
1, λη
b = 98
10
=
P₁ = [220]
-15/49, H= 7, A
E,= .68, E, = .60, E =
=
.62
=
= 92
Solution: Unique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Association Scheme: L₂(7)
=
98/9
25
0
Plan: Using as a model the BIB design (7,7,3,3,1),
whose plan may be obtained by developing
modulo 7 the initial block 1 2 4,
construct 14 BIB designs, one from the
treatments of each row and one from the
treatments of each column of the L₂(7)
association scheme. The 14(7)
= 98
blocks so constructed constitute the plan
for the present design which can be
rearranged by relocating treatments within
blocks so as to provide two replications
in each of the three positions within
blocks. Blocks arising from the rows of
the association scheme comprise three
replications and those from the columns,
three others.
Design LS25: v=
ni
=
81,
16, n
r =
=
216
0
Design LS23: v=
=
ni
=
36, r = 10,
k =
10, n2
4
25, A,
=
3, b: 120
2, λη 0
=
P.[25] P.- [218]
20
1/12, c₂ = -1/3, H= 12, A
E,= .69, E, = .60, E = .62
Solution: Unique; 5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 110
1, 2, 3
Dual: Not a D(x), x =
Association Scheme: L₂(6)
=
=
32
16
8,
k = 3,
b
64, λι
7 81
56
CI
=
Pi
1/27, C2
=
=
2
E-
= .67, E
Solution:
=
1, λε
=
P‚= [ 214]
-
-7/27, H= 9, A = 18
.61, E = .62
Unique; 4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 208
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Association Scheme: L₂(9)
Plan: Utilize the BIB design (9,12,4,3,1),
whose unique resolvable solution is
provided by:
a b c
ad g
afh a ei
def
ghi
cdh,
beh bdi b f
cfi ceg
as a model to construct BIB designs, one
from the treatments from each row and one
from the treatments of each column of the
L₂(9) association scheme. The 2(9)(12)
= 216 blocks so obtained constitute the
(Plan continued on next page)
265
\n--- PAGE 00000278 ---\nTABLE XIII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes - Continued
unique solution for the present design,
the blocks arising from the rows
constituting 4 replications and those from
the columns providing the other four
replications.
Design LS26: v= 9,
n2
Design LS27: v =
9,
r =
ni
=
4,
=
Р
1
P, { ¹ 2]
8,
4, λι
k
=
4,
=
2,
2
b
=
18
4
=
P₁ = [ ² ²]
P2
CI
=
4/15, C2
=
8/15, H
=
27/2, A
r = 4,
k
=
4,
b = 9
=
1, λη
= 2
==
45
4,
n₁ =
Pi
1
n2
1 2
= 4/15, c₂
=
8/15, H
=
=
E,= .80, E, = .87, E = .83
4, λ
2
P₁ = [ ² ²]
27/4, A45/4
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
nonresolvable
Complement: Design LS49, Solution 1
Dual: Truly self dual
Association Scheme: L₂(3)
Plan:
9245T3168
681249735
168924573
249735681
2
4
5
7
5
1
6
Solution 2: By method of P. M. Roy (1954c);
nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design LS49, Solution 2
Dual: Truly self dual
Association Scheme: L,(3)
Plan:
6
189952374
821574693
514763829
196328745
E¸= .80, E₂ = .87, E = .83
Solution 1:
2
Nonunique; 4-resolvable
Complement: Design LS50, Solution 1
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L₂(3)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS26, Solution 1.
Solution 2:
Nonunique; 4-resolvable
Complement: Design LS50, Solution 2
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L₂(3)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS26, Solution 2.
Solution 3:
Nonunique; 4-resolvable
Complement: Design LS50, Solution 3
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L₂(3)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS26, Solution 3.
Design LS28: v= 16,
C 1
=
1/4, C2
=
E₁ = .80, E₂
=
ni
=
6,
r = 2, k =
n2
=
9, λ,
=
4, b = 8
1, λε 0
P.-23] P.-[21]
Р
-1/2, H= 3, A
.67, E = .71
P‚= ² 4]
=
2
Solution: Unique; affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, k = 12
Dual: Design SR9
Association Scheme: L₂(4)
Plan: 1 2 3 4
1
5
9 13
5 6 7 8
2
6 10 14
9
10 11 12
3
7
11 15
13 14 15 16
4
8 12 16
Solution 3:
By method
of P. M. Roy (1954c);
nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design LS49, Solution 3
Dual: Truly self dual
Association Scheme: L₂(3)
954187236
631842597
7
5
211634TS8
Plan:
6 9
7
5
9
4
188526943
7
=
4,
b = 12
=
1, A2 0
63
· = [ 6 ³]
2
Design LS29: v= 16,
CI
=
1/4,
=
n₁ =
=
9,
4 4
=
P₁ = + 2]
6,
r =
3,
k
n 2
λ
P
6
C 2 -1/8, H= 5, A =
E, .80, E₂ = .73, E = .77
2
Solution 1: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, k
= 12
Dual: Design SR26, Solution 1
Association Scheme:
L,(4)
(Plan continued on next page)
266
\n--- PAGE 00000279 ---\nTABLE XIII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes – Continued
Plan:
5678
123 +
4826
3715
2004
1593
9 10 11 12
13 14 15 16
1234
6 11 16
12
15
6587
9 14
10 13
9 13
345
10 14
11 15
4 8 12 16
Remark: Upon interchanging the names of the
associate classes but keeping the plan
intact, this design may be shown to be
isomorphic with design LS36, Solution 1.
Solution 2: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, k
= 12
Dual: Design SR26, Solution 2
Association Scheme:
Plan:
L;(4)
1
5 9 13
2 6 10 14
12
7 11 15
4 8 12 16
1234
4826
3715
2604
1593
9 10 11
13 14 15 16
6785
123 +
11 16
12 13
9 14
4 5 10 15
Remark: If we start with the present design,
interchange the names of the associate
classes but keep the plan intact, the
resulting design has the appropriate
parameters for an L,(4) association
scheme. However, this is impossible and
the scheme is classified as pseudo Latin
square and the design is one of the
miscellaneous types, namely M16.
Design LS30: v = 16,
E
=
1/4, C2
=
=
16
r =
4, k
4,
b
ոլ
= 6,
n2
=
9, λι
=
2, A2
=
0
Р
1
=
37
P.-[2] P.-[2]
-1/2, H= 6, A
.80, E₂ = .67, E = .71
2
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 12
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L₂(4)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS28.
Design LS31: v= 16,
n₁ =
P
1
8
6, λι
=
=
=
24
2, A2 0
6 31
r =
6,
k
=
4,
b
9,
[
n 2
4 4
=
2
P₂
=
[
Solution 2: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L;(4)
= 18
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS29, Solution 2.
Design LS32: v = 16,
C 1
=
1/4, C2
E₁ = .80, E2
Solution:
n =
=
6,
r =
n2 =
P₁ =[ 23 ]
Р
1
6.
9, λι
-1/2, H= 9, A
= .67, E = .71
Unique; resolvable
=
Complement: Not listed, r = 18
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L₂(4)
k
=
4, b = 24
Pa
18
=
3, λε 0
= [ 2 ]
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS28 three times.
Design LS33: v= 16, r = 9, k
n₁ =
9,
=
n
2
6,
λ,
4
C
=
E,
-
1/4, C2
.80, E2
=
=
=
=
4,
808080
b = 36
3, λη
6 3
=
P.-] P.-[2]
-1/8, H= 15, ▲ :
.73, E = .77
Solution 1: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(4)
= 27
=
54
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS29, Solution 1 three
times.
Solution 2: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 27
Dual:
A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme:
L;(4)
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS29, Solution 2 three
times.
Design LS34: v=
C₁ =
1/4, C2
E,
=
16.
n₁ = 6,
=
r =
n2
3
-
= 32
=
k
8,
9, λι
=
=
b
4,
4, λη
P,
47
P.2] P.-[2]
=
=
−1/2, H= 12, ▲ 32
.80, E₂ = .67, E = .71
2
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme:
L₂(4)
= €24
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS28 four times.
0
C₁ =
E,
=
1/4,
C 2
=
.80, E,
Solution 1:
=
=
-1/8, H= 10, A 24
.73, E = .77
Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
=
18
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(4)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS29, Solution 1.
267
\n--- PAGE 00000280 ---\nTABLE XIII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes - Continued
Design LS35: v= 16,
=
1/4, C 2
=
=
=
E, .80, E,
6,
n₁ =
P₁ =[
1
=
r = 10, k 4,
n2 9,
2 3
b
=
5, λε
=
40
0
=
=
λ
8] P₁ = [ 24 ]
Pa
-1/2, H= 15, A = 50
.67, E = .71
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 30
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L₂(4)
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS28 five times.
Design LS36: v = 16,
= J
42
342
1
1
1 9 13
13 14 16 5
5 6 8 10
Plan:
1
4 12 16
1
6 10
1 3 5 13
759
15
39
14 15 13 6
16 13 15 8
11 12 10 16
3 2 10 14
10 11 9 15
12
9 11 13
3
8 12
6 14
6 12
6
4
5 11
15 16 14 7
3 11 15
8 16
10 12 14
498
167320S
5 7 9
44838567
272123
=
CI -1/8,
=
0, λ2 1
3,
k = 4,
b = 12
ni = 6,
P
n₂ =
9, λ
=
2
3
316
P₁ = [ 2 ]
=
C 2 1/4, H= 5, A = 6
E,= .73, E, = .80, E = .77
Solution:
Nonunique'; affine resolvable,
Agrawal (1965)
Complement: Not listed, k
= 12
Dual: Design SR26, Solution 1
7 11
8 11 14
5 12 15
9 16
4 7 10 13
Solution 2: As given by Clatworthy (1967);
= = 21
nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: L,(4)
Plan: To construct, use
Set 4.1
twice
Set 4.4
once
Set 4.2
twice
Set 4.5 once
Association Scheme:
L₂(4)
Plan:
1234
6 11 16
1234
7 12 14
8 11 13
6 9 15
4365
1234
5 12 15
8 9 14
7 10 13
8 10 15
7 9 16
6 12 13
5 11 14
5 10 16
Remark 1: Upon renaming the associate classes of
this design it can be shown to be
isomorphic with design LS29, Solution 1
which has the L¸(4) association
scheme.
*Remark 2: See design M16 which has the same
parameters but a nonisomorphic plan
and a pseudo Latin square association
scheme.
Design LS37: v=
n₁ = 6,
16,
Р
1
P₁ =[
na
2 3
=
9, λι
k
=
=
4,
2
P₁ = [
2, λη
2
b
=
=
4]
28
1
CI
=
13/40, c₂ = 3/20, H = 11, A = 30
E, .82, E₂
= .78, E = .79
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 21
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Set 4.3 once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS38: v=
C₁ =
217,
c 1
ni
=
=
16,
9,
P,{
1/7, H
4
r = 8,
=
20
k = 4, b = 32
=
2, A₂ 1
º
3
= [ 6 ³]
6, λ₁
=
P₁ =
13, A 42
=
E,= .81, E, = .78, E = .80
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 24
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme:
Plan:
5678123TO 203456
2901234
Lj(4)
11
9 10
15
12
6
9
5 7 10
13
10 14
10 11
11 12
12 9
12
2 9
16
11
11
15
3 10
4 5
12
16
11
1 6
1
13 9
1
14 10
15 11
16
85679A2I234K345
67855OTVORILSK3
H29O34RK4I237856
34566785
12341234
456786345
4
10
15
11
16
12 13
9 14
13 14 16
16
14 15 13
13
15 16 14
14
16 13 15
15 4 5
BK347823412
Association Scheme: L₂(4)
268
\n--- PAGE 00000281 ---\nTABLE XIII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes - Continued
Design LS39: v= 16,
=
n₁ = 6,
P₁ =[
=
=
C 1 11/32, C₂
E₁ = .82, E,
r =
n2
2 3
=
310
9,
9,
λι
k
=
4,
b
=
=
3, λη
=
36
1
P₁ = [24]
2
1/16, H = 14, ▲ = 48
.76, E = .78
1256
4 13 16
14 15
4387
9 12
7 10 11
Solution 3: As given by Clatworthy (1967);
Solution 1:
Rearranged plan given by BCS (1954);
nonunique; resolvable
nonunique: resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
= 27
Complement: Not listed, r
= = 27
Association Scheme: L₂(4)
Dual: Irregular
5678
1234
Association Scheme: L₂(4)
Plan:
9 13
6 10 14
11 15
8 12 16
2 11 15
10
13 14 15 16
9 16
Plan:
To construct, use
4826
3715
2004
1593
Set 4.1
3 times
Set 4.4
once
12
Set 4.2
3 times
Set 4.5
once
1347
1245
2589
3697
6 13
12 16
10 14
8 14
6 10 16
11 13
7 12 15
1234
5714
1263
4
8 13
6 11 12 14
4 10 15
5 9 13
6 10 14
7 11 15
8 12 16
7219
6965
4384
1253
4826
3715
2604
1593
9 10 11 12
13 14 15 16
10 12 13
0478
1236
5 14
11 16
9 15
8 10 11
13 14 15 16
Set 4.3 once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS40: v = 16,
n₁ =
C₁ = -1/8, c₂ =
E,
6,
r =
n2
=
6, k =
9,
=
4,
b = 24
=
0, A2
λι
P₁ = 2 3] P₂ = [
2
1/4, H= 10, ▲ = 24
.73, E, = .80, E = .77
2
=
Solution: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r 18
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L₂(4)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS36.
2
4]
22
Remark: See design M17 which has the same
parameters but a nonisomorphic plan and
a pseudo Latin square association
scheme.
Solution 2:
As given by Vartak (1955);
nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 27
Dual: Not a D(x), x =
Association Scheme:
Plan:
1, 2,
3
L₂(4)
3412
1291
6846
5735
2402
1391
10 13 14
12 15 16
10 12
5 7
6 8
13 15
14
16
10
12
246
13 14
8 15 16
9135
2468
1357
8765
5634
2143
9
3 10 11
13 16
7 14 15
3 13 15
14 16
9 11
8 10 12
4387
1256
5
12 13 16
14 15
9 11
4 10
12
13 15
8 14 16
2 13 14
4321
1290
3478
1236
3478
1256
4
15 16
6
9 10
8 11 12
6
1357
Design LS41: v= 16,
r = 7, k =
4, b = 28
ni
n2 =
6, λι
4
Pi
P.] P.-[1]
1, λε
6 3
=
82
P,=
CI
=
3/20, C2
=
13/40, H
=
11, A
= 30
E,
= .78, E, = .82, E = .79
Solution:
2
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual:
Irregular
= 21
Association Scheme:
L,(4)
Plan:
To construct, use
Set 4.1 once
Set 4.4 twice
Set 4.2 once
Set 4.5
twice
Set 4.3
once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
269
\n--- PAGE 00000282 ---\nTABLE XIII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes - Continued
Design LS42:
C₁ =
V =
ni
1/7, C
=
=
16,
6,
n2
=
λε
222
r = 8,
9, λ₁
k
=
4,
b = 32
=
1,
=
P₂
=
[
2
P₁ = 2 3]
2/7, H= 13, A = 42
E,= .78, E, = .81, E
Solution:
Resolvable
= .80
Complement: Not listed, r = 24
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: L₂(4)
Plan: To construct, use
Set 4.1 once
Set 4.4 twice
Set 4.2 once
Set 4.5
twice
Set 4.3 twice
Design LS45: v = 25,
[ =
8,
n₁ =
=
8,
16, λ,
k = 4,
b = 50
=
3, λε 0
3 4
=
12
CI
=
4/25,
=
C 2
Pi
P₂
=
[ 29 ]
-12/25, H= 45/4, ▲ = 225/8
E,= .78, E, = .67, E = .70
Solution: Unique; 4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 42
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Association Scheme: L₂(5)
Plan:
1
6
11
16
21 1
6 11
616
4321598769
321548760
215437000
1543260
10
9
6
8
7
8
9 10
7 12 17
11
12
13 14
3
8
b
= 36
=
33333
15
11 12 13
23
14
15 11 12
18
16 21 1
11 16 21 1
6 11
16 21
2 7 12 17
22 2 7
17
12
2 7
12 17 22 2
272032
13 18
8 13
3
13
14 15
11
13 18 23
12
14
15
8
13
18
16 17
18
19
4
9
14 19
20 16
17 18
24
4
9
19
17
19
24
4
19
20 16
14 19 24
17
21
25
122342
24 25
222
23
18
19 20
22732
243223
9 14 19
5 10 15
25 5 10 15
21
20 25 5 10
25 21
15 20 25
24 25
10
15 20
2°3032244245k
8
14
9
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS43: v = 16,
n =
9,
P
1
r = 9,
k
=
6,
λι
n2
4 4
CI = 1/16,
C 2
=
11/32, H
=
E,= .76, E₂ = .82, E = .78
Solution:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: L,(4)
Plan: To construct, use
=
=
4,
1, λη
3
P‚= [ 6 ³]
14, A = 48
= 27
2
Set 4.1
Set 4.2 once
once
Set 4.4 3 times
Set 4.5 3 times
Set 4.3
once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS44: v =
C₁ =
-1/8,
C₁ =
4/49,
C 2
=
E,= .77, E₂
-
16,
r = 9,
k = 4,
b = 36
=
λι 0, λε 3
=
n₁ = 6, n2 9,
P₁ = [ 23 ]
Р
=
=
P₁= [24]
P,
Cz 1/4, H 15, A = 54
E,= .73, E, = .80, E = .77
Solution: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual:
A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(4)
= 27
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS36 three times.
Remark: See design M18 which has the same
parameters but a nonisomorphic plan and
a pseudo Latin square association scheme.
Design LS46: v= 49, r = 8, k
ni
=
12, n
5 6
P, -{[
30
=
λη
=
=
98
0
=
4,
b
36, λ, =
2,
P₂
=
[
2 10
25
2
-20/49, H= 21/2, A = 49/2
.68, E = .70
Solution: Unique; 4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 90
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Association Scheme: L₂(7)
Plan: Utilize the BIB design (7,7,4,4,2), whose
unique solution is provided by developing
the initial block 1 2 3 5 modulo 7, as
a model for constructing BIB designs from
each of the rows and from each of the
columns of the L,(7) association scheme.
The 98 blocks so obtained constitute a
plan for the present design. With careful
placement of treatments within blocks the
plan becomes 4-resolvable with 2 replica-
tions for each position within blocks.
270
\n--- PAGE 00000283 ---\nTABLE XIII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes – -
Continued
=
Design LS47: v = 169, r =
8,
k
=
4,
b = 338
n₁ = 24, n₂ =
144,
λι
=
1,
λε 0
P₂
2
=
=
=[222]
=
121
169/8
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
nonresolvable
Complement: Design LS26, Solution 1
Dual: Truly self dual
Association Scheme: L₂(3)
Plan:
c, = 4/169, c₂
Ει
=
.75, E,
=
Pi
11 12
132
-44/169, H= 39/4, ▲
.70, E = .71
Solution: Unique; 4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 330
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Association Scheme: L₂(13)
Plan: Utilize the BIB design (13,13,4,4,1),
whose unique solution is obtained by
developing the initial block 1 3 4 8
modulo 13, as a model for constructing BIB
designs, one from the treatments of each
row and one from the treatments of each
column of the L₂(13) association scheme.
The 2(13)(13) = 338 blocks so obtained
constitute a solution for the present
design. Careful placement of the treat-
ments within blocks leads to a 4-
resolvable plan with two replications for
each position within blocks.
Design LS48: v = 256, r = 10, k
C₁ = 1/64, C2
n,= 30, n,= 225, λ,
=
4,
b = 640
=
=
1, λ, 0
P.-[1415] P.-[218]
=
210
-7/32, H= 12, A = 32
E,= .75, E, = .71, E = .72
Solution: Unique; 5-resolvable
196
4
5768-2349
31245689
6
7
Solution 2:
1
435167926
8
7
896361452
753696214
8
Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design LS26, Solution 2
Dual: Truly self dual
Association Scheme: L₂(3)
Plan: 1
9 1
8625-7394
754196∞32
238984756
161743528
85632479
8
9
Complement: Not listed, r
= 630
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Association Scheme: L₂(16)
Plan: Utilize the unique resolvable BIB design
(16,20,5,4,1), whose solution is:
a b c d aeim afk P
e f g h
i j k l
bfjn
cg ko
belo
chin
mnop dhlp dgj m
a g 1 n ahjo
bhk m b gip
cej p cflm
dfio dekn
as a model for constructing BIB designs
one from the treatments of each row and
one from the treatments of each column of
the association scheme L₂(16). The
2(16)(20) = 640 blocks so obtained
constitute a solution for the present
design. Blocks arising from rows of the
association scheme comprise five replica-
tions; those arising from columns, five.
Design LS49: v =
C₁ =
ni
55/126, c₂
=
9,
4,
r =
n2
1
=
P, { ¹ 2]
=
5,
4,
Solution 3: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design LS26, Solution 3
Dual: Truly self dual
Association Scheme: L₂(3)
Plan: 1
7
896853924
5
583197462
964318257
421965873
218574639
4
Design LS50: v =
r = 10,
4, λι
NEVE
CI
=
55/126, c2
=
=
=
=
9
2, λη 3
[ 2 ]
504/25
=
b = 18
· = [ ² ²]
40/63, H = 18, ▲ = 2016/25
E,= .88, E, = .92, E = .90
Solution 1:
Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Design LS27, Solution 1
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L₂(3)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS49, Solution 1.
(Plan continued on next page)
k = 5, b
A,
=
P₂
40/63, H = 9, A
E₁ = .88, E, = .92, E = .90
1
2
271
\n--- PAGE 00000284 ---\nTABLE XIII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes -
– Continued
Solution 2:
Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Design LS27, Solution 2
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L₂(3)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS49, Solution 2.
Solution 3: Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Design LS27, Solution 3
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L₂(3)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS49, Solution 3.
Design LS51: v = 25,
n₁ =
P
1
r = 2,
k
=
5, b: = 10
= 0
=
n₂
3 41
16, λι 1, λε
2
12]_P₂= [ ² ;]
-3/5, H= 3, A
c₁ = 1/5, c₂
=
E,= .83, E,
=
2
.71, E = .75
Pi
= 2
= 16
Solution: Affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design SR46
Association Scheme: L,(5)
Plan: To construct, use
Set 5.1 once
Set 5.2
once
Set 5.3 once
Set 5.4
once
16, A,
nz
3 4
12
Solution: Unique; affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, k
Dual:
Design SR11
Association Scheme:
=
€ 20
L₂(5)
Plan:
To construct, use
Set 5.1
once
Set 5.2 once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS52:
v =
25,
r = 3,
k =
=
12, A,
=
n₁ = 12, n₂
6
5,
1, λε
b = 15
=
P₁ = 5 ] P₁= [69]
=
0
20
b
1,
λη
=
0
2
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS54: v = 25, r = 4, k =
C₁ =
n₁ = 8,
P₁
=
=
-
5, b = 20
=
200
2, λη 0
P.- [2]
· [ 29 ]
1/5, c -3/5, H= 6, A = 8
2
E, .83, E₂ = .71, E = .75
=
2
=
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r 16
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L₂(5)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS51.
Design LS55: v = 25, r = 6, k
1
c =
1/5, C2
E, = .83, E,
Solution:
n₁ = 12, n₂
P₁ =[ 5 6
=
12, A,
=
=
5,
b = 30
=
2, λε
6
=
P‚= [ ' ;]
P₂
2
= -1/5, H= 10, ▲ = 24
=
.77, E = .80
Nonunique; resolvable
=
Complement: Not listed, r = 24
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(5)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS52.
Design LS56: v=
c
=
1
E,
=
1/5, C2
.83, E,
Solution:
25,
r = 8, k
= 16, n₂
9 6
=
=
=
5,
300
b = 40
=
2, A2
8, A,
P.-P.-[12]
P,
=
= −1/15, H= 14, ▲ = 48
=
.79, E = .82
Resolvable
=
Complement: Not listed, r 32
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(5)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS53.
0
C₁ =
1/5, C2
=
-1/5, H= 5, A
= 6
=
.77, E = .80
E,= .83, E,
Solution: Nonunique; affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual:
Design SR28
Association Scheme:
Plan:
L,(5)
To construct, use
Set 5.1 once
Set 5.2
once
Set 5.3 once
= 12
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS53: v=
=
C 1
n₁ =
=
25,
r = 4,
k
8, λ,
16, n₂ =
9 6
=
=
5,
P₁{ ;] P₁ = [ 12 ]
Pi
1/5, C2
E,= .83, E, = .79, E = .82
-1/15, H= 7, A
Р
2
= 12
272
\n--- PAGE 00000285 ---\nTABLE XIII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes – -
Continued
Design LS57: v=
C₁ =
=
1/5,
C 2
E, .83, E,
ni
=
=
=
25,
8,
r =
n;
4
=
P₁ = 3,12]
6,
k = 5,
16, λ₁ 3,
=
P,= [
-3/5, H= 9, A = 18
.71, E = .75
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 24
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(5)
b = 30
λ,
= 0
2 6
]
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS51 three times.
Design LS58: v=
C₁ =
1/5,
c
E, .83, E,
=
n₁ =
=
=
r =
9,
k
=
5,
b = 45
12, A₁
λη
= 0
25,
12, n,=
P₁ =[ 5 ]
1
Pi
-1/5, H= 15, ▲ =
.77, E = .80
Solution: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= = 36
Association Scheme:
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
L,(5)
=
=
54
3,
[69]
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS52 three times.
Design LS59: v = 25,
CI
E
=
1/5, C2
= .83, E,
n₁ =
=
=
=
r =
8,
k 5,
16, A₁
8, n =
4
', {
P₁ = 3,12]
=
4, λε
b = 40
=
P₁ = [ 2 ]
2
-3/5, H= 12, ▲ = 32
.71, E = .75
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 32
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L₂(5)
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS51 four times.
Design LS60: v = 25, r = 10, k
с
=
1
E,
=
1/5, C2
.83, E,
n₁ =
8,
n2
4
=
P₁ = 312]
P,
16, A₁
=
=
5,
5, λη
2
= [
P₂=
2
= -3/5, H= 15, ▲ = 50
= .71, E = .75
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= = 40
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
b
=
=
9]
0
50
0
Solution: Affine resolvable, Agrawal (1965)
Complement: Not listed, r = 16
Dual: A design with the parameters of design
SR46 and a nonstandardized association
scheme with m 4, n = 5.
Association Scheme: L,(5)
Plan: To construct, use
Set 5.3 once
Set 5.4
once
Set 5.5
once
Set 5.6 once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS62: v=
=
16, λ₁
=
25,
r = 8,
b
k = 5,
= 40
n₁ =
8,
2,
A = 1
=[²
2
P
=
n:
3 4
12
Pi
=3
C₁ = 29/105, c. 13/105, H= 13, ▲ = 42
=
E,= .85, E, = .82, E = .83
Solution:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme:
L₂(5)
Plan: To construct, use
= 32
Set 5.1
twice
Set 5.4 once
Set 5.2 twice
Set 5.5
once
Set 5.3
once
Set 5.6
once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS63: v=
25,
n₁ = 8,
r = 10, k
na
3 4
=
16, λ
=
5,
b = 50
=
3, λη 1
2 6
P‚={ ³ 12] P‚= [ ² %]
CI
=
19/63, C₂ =
1/21, H = 16, ▲ = 63
E, .85, E, = .81, E = .82
=
Solution:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: L,(5)
Plan: To construct, use
= 40
Association Scheme: L,(5)
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS51 five times.
Design LS61: v=
P
8,
25,
r = 4,
n₂ =
k
=
5,
b
16, λ,
3 4
Pi
12
2
=
=
=
20
0, A2
= 1
2 6
9]
C₁ =
E,
=
-1/15, C2
.79, E, = .83, E = .82
1/5, H = 7, A
=
12
Set 5.1 3 times
Set 5.4
once
Set 5.2 3 times
Set 5.5
once
Set 5.3 once
Set 5.6
once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
273
\n--- PAGE 00000286 ---\nTABLE XIII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes - Continued
Design LS64: v=
25,
n₁ =
r =
8,
8,
n₂ =
k
= 5,
b
=
16, A₁
=
0,
λε
=
40
2
2
Resolvable
=
E₁ =
P.-[312] P.-[29]
=
-1/15, c, 1/5, H= 14, A = 48
.79, E, = .83, E = .82
Solution:
Complement: Not listed, r = 32
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(5)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS61.
Design LS65: v = 25, r = 9,
n₁ = 12, n,
5 6
=
²
P‚{ ³ %] _P‚= [ ° 9]
k = 5,
12, A,
=
1, λε
6
b = 45
= 2
=
4/35, C2
=
17/70, H = 15, A
=
56
=
Resolvable
CI
E
= .82, E, .84, E = .83
Solution:
Complement: Not listed, r = 36
Dual: Irregular
Plan: To construct, use
Association Scheme: L,(5)
Design LS67: v=
ni
=
36,
10, n
r = 10, k
25, A,
=
P₁ = 425]
C
=
5/36, C2
=
20
P₂
2
=
=
5,
4,
b = 72
λε 0
=
= [ 2.8]
16
-5/9, H= 72/5, A = 1152/25
E,= .82, E₂ = .72, E = .75
2
Solution: Unique; 5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 62
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Association Scheme: L₂(6)
Plan:
Using as a model the BIB design
(6,6,5,5,4) (whose six blocks are:
a b c d e, a b c d f, a b c ef,
abdef, ac def, b c d e f) construct
12 BIB designs, one from the treatments
of each row and one from the treatments of
each column of the L₂(6) association
scheme. The 12(6) 72 blocks so constructed
constitutes the plan for the present design.
By careful arrangement of the treatments
within the blocks it is possible to provide
two replications for each position within
blocks.
Design LS68: v =
36,
=
5, b = 36
0, A2 1
6
=
P₂= [ °,9]
2
r = 5,
k =
n₁ =
15, n₂ =
20, A₁
=
6 8
Pi
12
Set 5.1 once
Set 5.4 twice
Set 5.2 once
Set 5.5
twice
с
1
-5/54, c₂ =
E₁ = .79, E,
Set 5.3
once
Set 5.6 twice
10
b = 50
52
5/36, H = 42/5, A
= .82, E = .81
Solution: Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 31
Dual: Self dual, Hoffman (1963)
Association Scheme: L,(6)
=
432/25
Plan: Cyclically develop the following six
initial blocks
7 24 33 16 29
24 31 15 26 5
6 11 34 15
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS66: v = 25, r =
=
1/9,
n₁ =
=
C 2
=
2
E,= .82, E₂
Solution:
8,
10, k = 5,
n₂ =
16, λ,
=
P,{
3
1, λε
2
=
Р
12]_P‚= [ ² ;]
2/9, H= 17, A = 72
.84, E = .83
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 40
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: L,(5)
Plan: To construct, use
25
2 12 25
22 33
8 23
33 13 6
14 29 19 3 12
using cycles of length 6 and cycling
within the six subsets of treatments 1-6,
7-12, 13-18, 19-24, 25-30, and 31-36.
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
Design LS69: v = 36, r = 10, k
ni
P
=
15, n
6 8
=
2
12]
Set 5.1
Set 5.2 once
once
Set 5.4 twice
Set 5.5 twice
Set 5.3 twice
Set 5.6 twice
C₁ =
-5/54,
C2
=
= 5,
=
20, λ,
b
= 72
0, A2
= 2
22
10
P₂ = [
[69]
2
5/36, H 84/5, A = 1728/25
=
E,= .79, E, = .82, E = .81
2
5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 62
Solution:
Dual:
A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(6)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS68.
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
274
\n--- PAGE 00000287 ---\nTABLE XIII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes - Continued
Design LS70: v =
=
ni
=
121, r =
10,
k = 5,
20, n₂ = 100, λ₁
10
P₁ =[900]
Pi
5/121, c₂ =
E₁ = .81, E₂
=
2,
λη
b = 242
P₂ = [ [218]
=
-45/121, H= 66/5, A = 968/25
.74, E = .75
Solution: Unique; 5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 232
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Association Scheme: L₂(11)
Plan: Utilize the BIB design (11,11,5,5,2),
whose unique solution is:
a b c gj
aehjk
ab fik
bcdh k
ce f go k
cfhij
ac dei
bdefj
d
g
i j k
adfgh
beghi,
0
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design LS7
Dual: Design SR35
Association Scheme: L₂(3)
Plan: 4
49
9
1
8
7
1
6
2 9
991934
885212
774365
633548
522697
Design LS73: v =
ni
9,
= 4,
r = 8,
k = 6,
b = 12
=
6, λ₂ 4
1 2
P
1
=
16/21, c₂
.95, E,=
=
=
CI
E
=
Solution:
-
4, λι
n₂
=
P₁ = [ 2 2]
11/21, H = 15, A = 56
.91, E = .93
Unique; 4-resolvable
Complement: Design LS8
Dual:
A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L₂(3)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS72.
as a model to construct BIB designs, one
from the treatments of each row and one
from the treatments of each column of the
association scheme L₂(11).
=
The
2(11)(11) = 242 blocks so obtained constitute
the unique solution for the present design.
Blocks arising from the rows comprise
five replications and blocks arising from
the columns comprise five. It is also
possible to arrange treatments within
blocks so as to provide two replications
for each position within blocks.
Design LS71: v=
ni
441, r =
40, n2
=3
•, [19,20]
Pi
380
=
10,
=
25, A,
nz
Design LS74: v= 36, r = 2,
k = 6,
=
1, λ,
b == 12
= 0
=
16
ni
4
P. [20] P.-[218]
=
-2/3, H= 3, A 2
10,
400, A1
P2
= [
k = 5,
1, λη
2 38
b = 882
=
0
C 1
=
E,
=
1/6, C2
.86, E,
=
=
.75, E = .78
361
CI 5/441, c₂ = -95/441, H= 63/5, A = 882/25
=
E, = .80, E,
-
.77, E = .77
Solution: Unique; 5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 872
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Association Scheme: L₂(21)
Plan: Utilize the BIB design (21,21,5,5,1),
whose unique solution is provided by
developing the initial block 3 6 7 12 14
modulo 21, for constructing BIB designs,
one from the treatments of each row and
one from the treatments of each column of
the association scheme L₂(21). The
2(21)(21) = 282 blocks so obtained
constitute a solution for the present
design. By careful arrangement of treat-
ments within blocks it is possible to
have a 5-resolvable plan with two replica-
tions for each position within blocks.
Design LS72: v
CI
=
16/21,
E,
9, r = 4, k
=
=
ni
= 4.
n 2
1 2
=
Р
4, λι
Р
-
Cz
6, b = 6
3, λη 2
=
P.-] P.-[2]
=
=
11/21, H = 15/2, A
95, E₂ = .91, E = .93
2
=
14
=
30
Solution: Unique; affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, k
Dual: Design SR13
Association Scheme: L₂(6)
Plan: To construct, use
Set 6.1 once
Set 6.2 once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS75: v= 36,
ni
=
r = 3,
k
20, A₁
-
15, na =
=
6,
b = 18
1, A2
= 0
6 9
= [ °,18]
P₂ =
10
6 8
P₁
12
C 1
=
1/6, C:
=
-1/4, H= 5, A
=
6
=
E,= .86, E, .80, E = .82
Solution: Nonunique; affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 15
Dual: Design SR30
Association Scheme: L,(6)
(Plan continued on next page)
275
\n--- PAGE 00000288 ---\nTABLE XIII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes - Continued
Plan: To construct, use
Set 6.1 once
Set 6.2
once
Set 6.3
once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS76: v= 36,
C
E,
1/6, C
= .86, E,
n₁ =
=
10.
Plan:
Design LS80: v = 36, r =
Repeat the plan of LS75 three times.
8,
k
ni
= 10, n₂ =
25, A,
=
4
1= [ ² 18]
P₂=
2
= 6,
4, λ,
2 8
16
b = 48
0
CI
E,
=
1/6,
=
P‚{ * 25]
=
C
2
-2/3, H= 12, ▲ ·
.86, E, = .75, E = .78
Solution:
Unique; resolvable
r = 4,
k
=
6,
b = 24
Complement: Not listed, r
= = 40
2, λη 0
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
=
na
4 5
==
25, A
=
P.-[28] P.- [218]
20
-2/3, H= 6, A = 8
.75, E = .78
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(6)
=
20
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS74.
Design LS77: v= 36, r =
=
16
b = 36
20, A, 2, A2 = 0
6,
k = 6,
P₂
=
2
[698]
n₁ =
15, n
6 8
Pi
12
E,
1/6, Ca
= .86, E,
-1/4, H= 10, ▲ = 24
.80, E = .82
10
Association Scheme: L₂(6)
=
32
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS74 four times.
Design LS81: v = 36, r = 10, k =
C₁ =
1/6, C2
=
6,
b = 60
0
n₁ = 10, n₂ = 25, λ, 5, λε
=
4 5
=
P.-[+20] P.-[218]
Pi
=
-2/3, H= 15, ▲ = 50
E, .86, E, = .75, E = .78
= 50
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme:
L₂(6)
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS74 five times.
Design LS82: v = 49, r = 6, k
ni =
18, na
10
P‚-{
P₁ { 720]
30, A
16
1
1
=
6,
b = 49
0, λη
= 1
暑
​Solution: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(6)
= 30
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS75.
Design LS78: v=
1/6, C
ni
P
1
36,
r =
6,
k
10, na
4 5
=
281
20
=
6,
25, A, 3,
-2/3, H= 9, A
E,= .86, E¸= .75, E = .78
=
Complement: Not listed, r = 30
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(6)
P₁ = [
2
18
λη
b = 36
= 0
2 87
16
C 1
= -3/49, c =
2
6/49, H =
= .82, E, = .85, E = .84
E₁ =
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
=
P₁ = [ 6 12]
2
21/2, A = 245/9
= 43
Dual: Self dual, Hoffman (1963)
Association Scheme: L,(7)
Plan: Cyclically develop the following seven
initial blocks
32 38 9 28 43 19
24 2 39 49 19 13
46 9 26 20 31 7
38 25 15 34 7 44
12 21 2
36 25 31
18 45 33
7 13 36
3 33 46
8 42 23
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS74 three times.
=
Design LS79: v = 36,
r = 9.
k = 6,
b = 54
15, n
6 8
=
20, A
3.
Ag
= 0
P₁
P:
12
c₁ = 1/6, C:
E,
=
2
-1/4, H= 15, A = 54
.86, E, = .80, E = .82
Solution: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 45
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(6)
[
6 9
10
using cycles of length 7 and cycling with-
in the seven subsets of treatments 1-7,
8-14, 15-21, 22-28, 29-35, 36-42, and
43-49. Each position within blocks
contains a replication.
276
\n--- PAGE 00000289 ---\nTABLE XIII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes - Continued
Design LS83: v= 16,
ni
=
6,
r = 7,
n2
2
k
= 7,
b
=
=
9,
λι
=
4, λε
=
16
2
P₁ ={ ² 3]
P₁ = [ 2 4]
Р
=
CI 91/160, c₂
=
21/80, H = 88/7, ▲ = 1920/49
E,
=
.93, E, = .89, E = .91
Solution: Nonunique'; nonresolvable
Complement: Design LS116
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Association Scheme:
Solution:
Nonunique; affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 18
Dual: Design SR31
Association Scheme: L,(7)
Plan: To construct, use
Set 7.1 once
Set 7.2 once
L₂(4)
Plan: 4
8 16
7 11
13
23
10
13
11
12
14
1
15
16
-55896362
16
HR4252SPORT+10
13 14 15
10 16
12
9
6
7
3
K34B0720
34175820-
0528113+
243
12
13
14
15 9
63
6
11
14
1
12
15
9 4
13
3
5
5625-22783414
4361890-2356274
2 6
16
9
10 11
11 9
10
8
7
33OUTHPORTI2525
4
Set 7.3 once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS86: v =
C₁ =
1/7,
E
49,
r = 4,
k = 7,
b = 28
=
= 0
24, n 2
=
P₁ =[112]
24, A,
-1/7, H= 7, A
=
c
2
=
= .87, E₂:
Solution:
.84, E = .86
1, λη
12
P₁ = [ ¹² 12]
2
=
12
Nonunique; affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design SR48
Association Scheme: L,(7)
Plan: To construct, use
= 24
*Remark: See design M28 for a design with the
same parameters but with a nonisomorphic
plan and a pseudo Latin square type asso-
ciation scheme.
Set 7.1
once
Set 7.2
once
Set 7.3
once
k
=
7,
b = 14
36, λ, 1, λη
=
= 0
6
Design LS84: v= 49, r = 2,
C₁ = 1/7, C2
E,
n₁ =
=
12, na
P₁ = 530]
Pi
10
P₁ = [220]
2
25
-5/7, H= 3, ▲ = 2
= .87, E₂ = .78, E = .80
Solution: Unique; affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design SR14
Association Scheme:
L₂(7)
Plan:
To construct, use
Set 7.1 once
= 12
Set 7.4 once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS87: v= 49, r = 5, k =
ni
C₁ = 1/7, c₂ =
E,= .87, E₂
Solution:
=
=
30, n2
=
18, λ
P,
=
7, b = 35
=
1, λε 0
P.-[172] P.- [2010]
=
-1/14, H= 9, ▲ = 20
.85, E
= .86
=
30
Affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design SR62
Association Scheme: L,(7)
Plan: To construct, use
Set 7.2 once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS85: v = 49,
с =
1
ΠΙ
1/7, c₂ =
E₁ = .87, E,
=
r =
3,
k
=
7,
18, na
7 10
20
=
30, A,
-2/7, H= 5, A
= .82, E = .84
=
=
b = 21
1, 1, = 0
P₁ = [ 612]
2
Set 7.1 once
Set 7.4
once
Set 7.2 once
Set 7.5
once
Set 7.3 once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
277
\n--- PAGE 00000290 ---\nTABLE XIII.
Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes - Continued
Design LS88: v = 49, r =
CI
= 1/7, C
6,
k =
7,
b = 42
n, 36, n,
12, λι
=
1,
λε
= 0
10
=
P₁ =[2519]
= -1/35, H= 11, A
E, .87, E, = .85, E = .87
=
Solution:
Affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 36
Dual: Design SR77
Association Scheme: L,(7)
Plan: To construct, use
P,
2
=
30
6
[ 30 ]
=
Set 7.1 once
Set 7.4
once
Set 7.2 once
Set 7.5
once
Set 7.3 once
Set 7.6
once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS89: v = 49,
C₁ =
=
1/7,
C 1
E, .87, E,
Solution:
=
= J
4, k
=
ոլ 12, n,= 36, A,
=
=
5 67
30
-5/7, H= 6, A
.78, E = .80
Unique; resolvable
=
Complement: Not listed, r = 24
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(7)
=
7,
b = 28
-
2, λε 0
P,- [210]
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS84.
Design LS90: v=
8
=
25
49, r = 6,
k = 7, b = 42
ni
=
18, n
7 10
20
30, λ,
Design LS92: v = 49, r = 10, k =
ni
=
1/7, C2
=
E
= .87, E,
Solution:
=
=
30, n, 18, A,
=
7,
b = 70
2, λε
= 0
P.-1712] P.-[2019]
-1/14, H= 18, A = 80
.85, E = .86
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(7)
= 60
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS87.
Design LS93: v =
=
1/7, c
2
E,
=
.87, E,
ni
49,
r = 6, k
= 12, n₂
6
=
36, A
=
=
7,
b = 42
3, λε
== 0
10
P. 530] P.-[21]
P,
= −5/7, H= 9, A = 18
= .78, E = .80
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(7)
=
36
=
25
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS84 three times.
Design LS94: v = 49,
CI
=
n₁ =
P
1
= J
=
18, n
2
7 10
20
9, k =
30, λ,
=
7, b = 63
3, λε
1/7, C = -2/7, H= 15, ▲
E,= .87, E, = .82, E = .84
2
=
P₁ = [ 6 12]
= 54
Solution: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 54
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(7)
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS85 three times.
Design LS95: v= 49, r = 8,
17
0
k
=
7, b = 56
12, n
=
2
36, A,
=
5 6
P
1
30
c₁ =
1/7,
=
P
=
2, A₂ = 0
6 1/2]
P,= [ 6 12
C 1 -2/7, H= 10, A = 24
E,= .87, E₂ = .82, E = .84
2
Solution: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual:
A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(7)
= = 36
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS85.
Design LS91: v= 49, r = 8,
=
1/7, C2
C 1
E
1
=
ni
=
=
=
24, n
11
=
P₁ =[¹¹ 1/2]
Р
24, λι
-1/7, H= 14, A
.87, E, .84, E = .86
k = 7, b = 56
=
2, A, = 0
12 12
·= [
Pi
=
Solution: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 48
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(7)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS86.
2
48
12]
=
1/7,
=
C 2 -5/7, H= 12, A
E, .87, E₂ = .78, E = .80
=
= 48
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(7)
=
4, λε 0
P₁ = [220]
25
= 32
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS84 four times.
278
\n--- PAGE 00000291 ---\nTABLE XIII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes - Continued
Design LS96: v = 49,
E
=
1/7, C:
= .87, E,
n₁ = 12,
=
r = 10, k =
ก.
6
=
P₁ = 530]
Р
36, λ,
b
=
=
5,
A₂
=
70
0
10
P₁ = [220]
2
-5/7, H= 15, A = 50
= .78, E = .80
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 60
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme:
L₂(7)
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS84 five times.
Design LS97: v=
CI
Ei
=
3/14, C
n₁ =
=
49,
25
r = 10,
k
=
7,
b =
70
λ,
=
2, λε
= 1
10
25
12, n, = 36,
5 6
P,{
=
30
P‚= [ 2 29]
2/21, H = 17, A = 72
= .88, E, .87, E = .87
Solution:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 60
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme:
L₂(7)
Plan: To construct, use
Set 7.1 twice
Set 7.5
once
Set 7.2 twice
Set 7.6
once
Set 7.3 once
Set 7.7
once
Set 7.4 once
Set 7.8 once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS98: v=
16,
n₁ = 6,
r = 6,
n:
=
P₁ = 2 3]
9,
k = 8, b
4, λε
2
λι
=
= 12
=
P‚= [ ² 4]
2
Plan:
1
2 3 4 5 6
9
11
12
10
13 14
7 8
15 16
1
4
9 10
11 12
8 13
14 15 16
5
37
26
15
37
26
15
355
3
2
3 4 13 14 15 16
7 8
9 13
11 15
5 9 13
6
10 14
9 10 11 12
6 10 14
8 12 16
7 11 15
8 12 16
13
12
57
1
5 9 13
2
6 10 14
24
34
43
8 12 16
7 11
15
Design LS99: v = 16, r = 9,
k =
8,
b: = 18
= 9, =
n:
6,
λι
=
5,
4
λε 3
3
=
Р
C₁ =
9/16, C₂
=
P₁ = [ 6 ³]
P. P.-
11/32, H = 17, A = 72
E, .94, E, = .91, E = .93
=
2
Solution 1: As given by Clatworthy (1967);
nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Design SR100, Solution 1
Association Scheme: L,(4)
Plan: To the 12 blocks of design LS98 annex the
following six blocks:
1 6 11 16 2
5 12 15
3
8 9 14
4
7 10 13
12
1
6 11 16
2
5 12 15
87
34
8 9 14
7 10 13
12
1
6 11 16 4
2 5 12
15 3
78
43
7 10 13
8 9 14
CI
=
13/20, c₂
=
3/10, H=
11, A = 30
=
E, .95, E, .91, E = .93
Solution:
Affine resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Design SR69, Solution 3
Association Scheme:
L₂(4)
Solution 2: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Design SR100, Solution 2
Association Scheme: L;(4)
Plan: To the 12 blocks of design LS98 annex the
following 6 blocks:
1 6 11 16 2 7 12 13
3
8 9 14 5 10 15 4
2
12
12
6 11
34
16
13
12
7 12 13
6 11 16
63
2 7 12 13
8 9 14
5 10 15
4
43
5 10 15
8 9 14
279
\n--- PAGE 00000292 ---\nTABLE XIII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes - Continued
Solution:
Nonunique; affine resolvable,
Agrawal (1965)
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Design SR100, Solution 3
Association Scheme: L,(4)
Plan: 1 6 11 16
13
3
8 9 14
Design LS100:v =
16,
n₁ = 6,
r =
n2
=
P₁ =[ 23 ]
Р
= [24]
= 9,
9,
k
=
8,
b
=
λι
= 3,
λε
=
18
5
P₁ =
E,=
11/32, c
= .91, E,
=
9/16, H = 17, A
=
72
=
.94, E = .93
=
Plan:
228
3-32222
43
531276
63
11 16 21
123
17 5 7 12 4
5722
4
8 13
3
24 9 14 19
1 2 3 4 10
1
8
16
7
21
6 8 9 17 12
78
18 23
1
18
1
1
15 20
9 10 11
10
3 6
9
10
4
7
19 14
7
8 9 15
20 25
12
13 14
21 16
13 14 15
7
22
11
12
23 18 3
24 4
19
12
13 15
57
24
64
34
65
5 12 15
5 11
10
13 12 20
10
13
21 17
20
11 19
19
18
16 22 7
87
9
14
8
19
13
16
23
10
13
20 16
17
14
18
16 15
18
10
78
43
65
24
46
34
43
43
4
7 10 13
6
25
24
23
11 16
9 14
17
21 12 25
24
25 24 8
3
21 18
8 11 13
14 9 21
4
25
-3431222ETALKIN
36
17
17 19 25 5
6
9 15
5
10 16
6
9 15
Design LS102:v
= 64,
n₁ = 14, n,
r = 2, k
=
8,
b = 16
23
5 22
20 15 10
S941032222222
10 8
5 6
15
11 17
15 14
11
25
18
2
20
9
1
7
22
19
24
12
2
12
13
3
12
6 11 16
5 12 15
6 11 16
5 12 15
7 12 14
5 10 16
7 12 14
2 8 11 13
12
2
13
3
12
7 12 14
43
8 11 13
8 10 15
6 12 13
8 10 15
6 9 15
5 10 16
2
7
9 16
C₁ =
1/8, Cz
5 11 14
24
34
6 12 13
2
7
9 16
5 11 14
8 10 15 4
5 11 14
87
12
9 16 3 6 12 13
Remark: See design M32 which has identical
parameters with the present design but
cannot have an L,(4) type association
scheme. Hence design LS100 does not have
a unique solution.
Design LS101:v
CI
=
=
=
n₁ =
328/825, c
E, .92, E,
=
Solution:
25,
8,
P,{
Р
r = 8,
n₂
3 4
12
=
16, λ,
k
=
=
8, b
3, λε
=
25
2
Pi
2
=
=
[ 299]
= 72/275, H = 115/8, A = 825/16
.90, E = .91
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 17
Dual: Self dual, Hoffman (1963)
Association Scheme: L,(5)
=
6
=
=
49, A, 1, A, = 0
=
12
P.[2] P.-[22]
42
=
2
-3/4, H= 3, A
=
E₁ = .89, E₂ = .80, E .82
Solution: Unique; affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 14
Dual: Design SR15
Association Scheme: L₂(8)
Plan: To construct, use
Set 8.1 once
Set 8.2 once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS103:v
=
n₁ =
=
1/8, C2
=
E
= .89, E,
Solution:
64,
21,
r = 3,
n:
=
P₁ = 812]
30
42, A,
36
k = 8, b = 24
=
1, A2 0
=
P₁ = [ 615]
P,
-5/16, H= 5, A = 6
= .84, E = .86
Affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design SR32
Association Scheme: L,(8)
= 21
26
(Plan continued on next page)
280
\n--- PAGE 00000293 ---\nTABLE XIII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes - Continued
8, b = 48
1, λη 0
= [ '30 12]
8
Plan: To construct, use
Set 8.1
once
Set 8.2
once
Set 8.3
once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
b = 32
=
Design LS106:v
=
ni
=
64,
42, n
r = 6,
21, A,
k
=
=
P₁
= 30
C₁ =
E,
=
1/8,
c 1
=
P₁ =[26 15]
-1/20, H= 11, A
.89, E, = .87, E = .88
Solution:
Affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design SR78
Association Scheme: L,(8)
Plan: To construct, use
= 42
Design LS104:v = 64,
r =
k = 8,
n₁ = 28,
n₂
=
35, A,
=
1, λη = 0
16
Р
18
C₁ =
=
1/8, C2
=
15
P.-[121] P,-[121]
20
-1/6, H= 7, A 12
E, .89, E, = .86, E = .87
Solution:
2
Affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design SR49
Association Scheme: L,(8)
Plan: To construct, use
Set 8.1 once
=3
= 28
Set 8.2
once
Set 8.3
once
Set 8.4
once
Set 8.1
once
Set 8.4
once
Set 8.2
once
Set 8.5
once
Set 8.3
once
Set 8.6
once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS107:v
n, = 49,
=
n2
=
=
64, r = 7,
k = 8,
b = 56
14, λ, 1, λη
500
P₂ = [ 42 ]]
= 42
P₁ =36 12]
Pi
-1/48, H= 13, ▲ :
=
1/8, C2
=
E₁ = .89, E,
=
.87, E = .89
=
=
8,
1, λη
b = 40
=
[2015]
0
Solution:
Affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 49
Dual: Design SR88
Association Scheme: L,(8)
Plan: To construct, use
Set 8.1 once
Set 8.5
once
Set 8.2 once
Set 8.6
once
Set 8.3
once
Set 8.7
once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS105:v
=
64,
r = 5,
k
-
n₁ =
28, λ1
Р
Pi
c₁ = 1/8, cz
=
=
35, n
2
16
P₁ =[ 18 19]
1
12
-3/32, H= 9, A = 20
E, .89, E, = .86, E = .88
=
Solution:
Affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 35
Dual: Design SR63
Association Scheme: L,(8)
Plan:
To construct, use
Set 8.1 once
Set 8.4 once
Set 8.2
once
Set 8.5 once
Set 8.3 once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Set 8.4 once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS108:v
=
1/8, Cz
k
=
8,
49, A,
:V = 64, r = 4,
n, = 14, n,
=
=
P‚ { ° 42]
Pi
-3/4, H= 6, A
E, .89, E, = .80, E = .82
=
= = 28
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(8)
=
b = 32
=
2, A, 0
P₁ = [212]
36
8
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS102.
281
\n--- PAGE 00000294 ---\nTABLE XIII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes - Continued
Design LS109:v = 64,
CI
n₁ =
1/8, C
=
21, n
r = 6,
k
= 8, b
=
42, A,
=
2, A2
48
0
=
P₁ = 812]
{
30
-5/16, H= 10, A
E, .89, E, = .84, E = .86
Solution:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3) WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(8)
P₂
= 42
=
15
[628]
= 24
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS103.
Design LS110:v = 64, r = 8, k
1/8,
C 1
ni
=
= 28, n
2
12 15
P₁ =² 20
Pi
=
]
35, A
P₂
2
=
=
=
-1/6, H= 14, ▲ : = 48
E, .89, E, = .86, E = .87
=
Solution:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 56
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(8)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS104.
8,
2, λη
b = 64
=
[ 12 18]
Design LS111:v
=
64, r = 10,
k = 8,
b
=
28, λ,
=
2, λη
=
=
1/8, C2
=
=
80
k
=
b
0
80
88
0
= 48
P,= [
= 0
2 12
36
CI
ni
=
=
35, n
P.-[1816] P,- [2015]
12
-3/32, H= 18, A =
E, .89, E, .86, E = .88
Solution:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 70
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(8)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS105.
Design LS112:v = 64, r = 6,
CI
E
=
1/8, C
n₁ =
=
14, n
6
=
P‚={ ° 42]
=
=
8,
49, A 3, λη
-3/4, H= 9, A = 18
= .89, E, = .80, E = .82
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 42
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L₂(8)
Plan:
Repeat the plan of LS102 three times.
Design LS113:v
= 64,
n₁ =
21,
= J
=
01
P₁ = 812]
Þ,{
30
9, k
=
8, b
-
3, λη
6
42, λι
=
=
P₁ = [15]
P2
-5/16, H= 15, A = 54
1/8, C2
=
=
2
.84, E = .86
C₁ =
=
E, .89, E,
26
72
0
Solution:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(8)
= 63
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS103 three times.
Design LS114:v
=
ni
=
C₁ =
1/8, Cz
=
Ει
= .89, E,
64, [= 8, k =
14, n2 49, λι
6 7
8,
b = 64
=
4, λη
=
0
=
=
12
P.2] P.-[22]
42
=
-3/4, H= 12, A 32
= .80, E = .82
2
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 56
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme:
L₂(8)
36
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS102 four times.
Design LS115:v
=
=
1/8,
C 2
64,
n₁ = 14, n₂
=
=
10,
k = 8,
=
b 80
5, λη
2 12
= = 0
=
[
r =
49, A
P2
= 50
P₁ = 642]
-3/4, H= 15, A
E,= .89, E, = .80, E = .82
2
=
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L₂(8)
70
36
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS102 five times.
Design LS116:v =
=
27/40,
16.
r =
-
9.
n₁ = 6, n₂ 9, λι
P₁ = [ 23 ]
Р
k
=
=
9, b
6, λη
2
= 16
=
P₂ = [ ² 4]
2
C 2 9/20, H = 152/9, ▲ = 640/9
=
E, .96, E, = .94, E = .95
Solution: Nonunique'; nonresolvable
Complement: Design LS83
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Association Scheme: L₂(4)
14
(Plan continued on next page)
1
1
282
\n--- PAGE 00000295 ---\nTABLE XIII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes - Continued
32
214
10
11
9
10
11
12
9
11
12
6
7
6
92105876
7658321
6587214
587614
5
8
Plan:
1
4
2
3
1
2
3
4
13
14
15
16
13
14
15
16
13
3
14
15
16
2 3
9
10
11
13
14
15
12
9
10
16
13
14
1
11 12
9
15
16
13
4
1
10
12
14
15
16
3
4
5
7 9
10
11
13
14
15
6
12 9
10
16
13
14
5 11
12
9
15
16 13
21
58
587
876
432
65832.
5872
436
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
=
40
Dual: Self dual, Archbold and Johnson (1956)
Association Scheme: L₂(7)
Plan: To construct the plan first cyclically
develop 7 initial blocks from the general-
ized initial block
=
7i+ 1, 7i+ 2, 7i + 4, 7(i + 1) + 1,
7(i + 1) + 2, 7(i + 1) + 4, 7(i + 3) + 1,
7(i + 3) + 2, 7(i + 3) + 4, where i 0,
1, 2,..., 6 and (i + z) is reduced modulo 7.
Then cyclically develop these seven initial
blocks using cycles of length 7 and cycl-
ing within subsets of treatments 1-7, 8-14,
15-21, 22-28, 29-35, 36-42, and 43-49.
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
8 10 11 12 14 15 16
*Remark: See design M34 which has the same
parameters but a nonisomorphic plan, and
a pseudo Latin square type association
scheme.
Design LS117:v
CI
=
ות
= 25, r = 9,
=
8,
n2
3 4
=
=
Design LS119:v
:V = 81, r = 2,
n₁ = 16, n,
k = 9,
b = 18
=
64, λ
=
1, λε
= 0
14
=
2
k =
16, A₁ 5, λε
9, b
-
25
=
2
C₁ =
1/9, Ca
=
Ei
=
P.2] P.-[29]
1
12
171/325, c = 99/650, H = 145/9, ▲ = 5200/81
E, .94, E₂ = .90, E = .92
=
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 16
Dual: Self dual, Hoffman (1963)
Association Scheme: L₂(5)
7
P₁[258] P,- [210]
=[
56
-7/9, H= 3, A = 2
= .90, E, = .82, E = .83
2
Solution: Unique; affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 16
Dual: Design SR16
Association Scheme:
L₂(9)
Plan: To construct, use
Set 9.1 once
49
5 10 15 20 25
9 10 11 16 21
10 12 17 22
10 13 18 23
Plan: 1
1
1
1
1
1
1
222220……………r∞agor∞α-67008
IIII2345-2345-2345-2345
3333377777
4
4
4
4
4
8
8
8
55555aa9
6 11 16 21
7 12 17 22
8 13 18 23
9 14 19 24
8
9 10 14 19 24
8
9
10 15 20 25
6 11
11
12 13 14 15 16 21
12 13 14 15 17 22
8
11
12 13 14 15 18 23
9
11
12
13
14 15 19 24
5 10 11
12 13 14 15 20 25
6 11 16 17 18
19 20 21
7 12 16 17 18 19 20 22
8 13 16 17 18
9 14
19
20 23
16 17
18
19 20 24
5 10 15 16 17
1
18 19 20 25
22 23 24 25
Set 9.2 once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS120:v
=
1/9,
C 2
=
n₁ =
=
81,
24, n
r = 3,
14
=
P₁ = 919]
42
k
=
56, A =
9, b = 27
1, λε
18
=
P₁ = [ 6 39]
-1/3, H= 5, A = 6
E, .90, E, = .86, E = .87
=
Solution:
= 24
Affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design SR33
Association Scheme: L,(9)
Plan: To construct, use
6 11 16 21
Set 9.1
once
7 12
17 21
22 23 24 25
8
9
13 18 21 22 23 24 25
14 19 21 22 23 24 25
Set 9.2
once
5 10 15 20 21
22 23
24 25
Set 9.3
once
=
Design LS118:v
C 1
E,
=
=
n₁ =
P,
171/539, c₂
92, E,
=
=
12, n
5 6
30
=
]
k =
36, A₁
27/539, H
.89, E = .90
=
3, λε
10
=
P₁ = [ 2009 ]
Pi
25
1
140/9, A = 539/9
49, r = 9,
9, b = 49
=
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
37
0
283
\n--- PAGE 00000296 ---\nTABLE XIII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes - Continued
Design LS121:v = 81,
P₁ - 13 187
r = 4,
k = 9,
n, = 32, n, 48, λ,
b = 36
=
30
=
1, λε
12
P‚= [ ¹2 29]
2
0
=
=
-5/27, H= 7, A
=
12
C₁ =
1/9,
C2
E, .90, E, = .87, E = .88
=
Solution:
Affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design SR50
Association Scheme: L,(9)
Plan: To construct, use
Set 9.1 once
= 32
Set 9.2
once
Set 9.3
once
Set 9.4
once
Plan:
To construct, use
Set 9.1
once
Set 9.4
once
Set 9.2 once
Set 9.5
once
Set 9.3 once
Set 9.6
once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS124:v = 81, r = 7, k = 9, b = 63
=
с
1
119,
с
2
n₁ =
= 56, n₂
=
24, A,
=
1, λε
= 0
P.37 18] P,-[424]
=
= -1/27, H= 13, A = 42
E,= .90, E, = .89, E = .90
Solution:
Affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design SR89
Association Scheme:
=
= 56
L,(9)
81,
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS122:V
C 1
=
=
n, 40, n,= 40,
=
P, -[1920]
P,= [20 20]
1/9, c₂ = -1/9, H= 9, A = 20
2
E, .90, E, = .88, E = .89
Solution:
Affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design SR64
Association Scheme: L,(9)
Plan: To construct, use
= = 40
Plan:
To construct, use
r = 5,
k = 9,
λ,
=
1, λε
b = 45
= 0
Set 9.1 once
Set 9.5
once
Set 9.2
Set 9.3
once
Set 9.6
once
once
Set 9.7
once
Set 9.4
once
Set 9.1 once
Set 9.4 once
CI
=
1/9, C:
Set 9.2 once
Set 9.5
once
Set 9.3 once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS125:v = 81,
n₁ =
=
8,
r =
k
=
9,
=
b
64, n2
=
=
20
72
14
=
16, λ₁ 1, λ
P.-[494] P.-[56]
P,=
-1/63, H= 15, A = 56
E,= .90, E₂ = .89, E = .90
Solution:
2
Affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design SR98
Association Scheme:
= 64
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS123:V
ni
P
=
81,
r = 6, k = 9,
= 48, n₂
1
=
27 201
32, A₁
P₂
=
L.(9)
b = 54
Plan:
To construct, use
1,
λε
= 0
30 18
Set 9.1 once
Set 9.5
once
2
13
Set 9.2
once
Set 9.6
once
CI
=
1/9, C
=
-1/15, H= 11, A
= €30
=
=
E, .90, E, .88, E = .89
Solution:
Affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design SR79
Association Scheme: L,(9)
= 48
Set 9.3
once
Set 9.7
once
Set 9.4 once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Set 9.8
once
284
\n--- PAGE 00000297 ---\nTABLE XIII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes – -
Continued
Design LS126:v
ni
Р
=
=
81,
r = 4,
k
=
9,
b = 36
=
16, n₂
=
64, λ,
=
2, A2 0
7
1
56
58] P₁ = [214]
49
=
8
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 48
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L₂(9)
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS119 three times.
CI
=
1/9,
-7/9, H= 6, A
C 2
E₁ = .90, E,
=
=
2
.82, E = .83
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 32
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme:
L₂(9)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS119.
Design LS127:v
=
81,
r = 6,
k
=
9,
24, n, = 56, λ,
=
ni
=
14
b = 54
2, λε
18
=
P₁ = 9 12 ] P‚= [ 6 19]
42
P₂
2
=
-1/3, H= 10, A
=
24
37
0
C₁ =
E,
1/9,
C 2
.90, E, = .86, E = .87
Solution:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 48
Dual:
A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(9)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS120.
Design LS128:v
CI
E,
=
ni
=
=
=
81,
32, n
= J
=
P.-[1318]
30
8,
k = 9,
48, A
=
b: = 72
122
2, A2 = 0
P,- [ 12 20]
=
1/9, C2
.90, E₂ = .87, E = .88
-5/27, H= 14, A 48
Solution:
2
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(9)
= 64
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS121.
Design LS129:v = 81, r = 10, k = 9,
=
n, = 40, n, 40, A1
=
27
b = 90
2, λη
=
P.-1920] P.- [20 20]
Р =
2
19
20
Design LS131:v
=
81, r = 9,
k = 9, b = 81
=
56, A₁
3, λ₂
= 0
CI
E,
ni
=
1/9, Cz
=
= .90, E,
2
24, n₂ =
9 14
=
= 618]
P.-[12] P.-[639]
42
=
2
-1/3, H= 15, A 54
= .86, E = .87
Solution:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 72
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(9)
37
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS120 three times.
Design LS132:v = 81, r = 8, k
=
9,
b = 72
4, λ,
==
=
P₁ = [214]
2
49
0
n₁ =
16, n₂ = 64,
λι
P₁
7 8
56
C₁ =
1/9.
c
= -7/9, H= 12, ▲ = 32
2
E, .90, E₂ = .82, E = .83
=
2
Solution: Unique; resolvable
=
Complement: Not listed, r 64
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L₂(9)
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS119 four times.
Design LS133:v = 81, r = 10, k
ni
=
16, n
7
=
=
9, b
64, λ, 5, λη
=
P.[8]
56
=
90
= 0
P,= [ 2 14]
CI
=
1/9,
C 2
=
-7/9, H= 15,
=
Δ 50
E,
=
.90, E, .82, E = .83
Solution:
=
Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 80
Dual:
A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(9)
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS119 five times.
c
=
1
1/9,
C 2
=
−1/9, H= 18, A
=
80
E¸= .90, E₂ = .88, E = .89
Solution:
2
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 80
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(9)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS122.
Design LS130:v = 81,
r = 6,
k = 9,
n₁ =
P
1
16, n
7 87
56
=
64, λ,
=
Ps
=
3, λη
b
14
=
=
[219]
49
54
0
1/9, C
=
-7/9, H= 9, A = 18
=
E, .90, E,
=
2
.82, E = .83
285
\n--- PAGE 00000298 ---\nTABLE XIII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes - Continued
Design LS134:v: 100, r = 9,
=
n₁ =
27, n₂ =
P₁ =[1016]
1
CI
= -9/350, c₂
=
E, .89, E,
Solution:
56
=
1
k
=
9, b= 100
72, A,
=
0, λη
P₂
2
· = [ 6 21 ]
50
9/100, H= 50/3, A = 5600/81
.90, E = .89
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Association Scheme: Not in standardized form;
13124
11223
2
6
11 16 21
8 13 18 23
7 12 17 22
4
9
14 19 24
6 11 16 21
24535
7 12 17 22
5 10 15 20 25
9 14 19 24 5 10
8
13 18 23
15 20 25
8
13 18 23
9 14 19 24
6
11 16 21
344L
6 11 16 21 4
7 12 17 22
9 14 19 24
7 12 17 22 5 10 15 20 25
8 13 18 23 5 10 15 20 25
= 91
given below.
la 2b 3c 4d
11j 12a 13b 14c 15d
2li 22j 23a 24b
25c
5e 6f 7g
16e 17f
26d 27e
8h 9i 10j
18g 19h 20i
28f 29g 30h
31h 321 33j 34a
35b
36c 37d
38e 39f 40g
41g 42h 43 44
45a
46b 47c
48d 49e 50f
51f 52g 53h 54i
55j
56a 57b
58c 59d 60e
6le 62f 63g 64h
65i
66j 67a
68b 69c 70d
71d 72e 73f 74g 761 77j
8lc 82d 83e 84f 85g 86h 87 88j
9lb 92c 93d 94e 95f 96g 97h 98
75h
78a 79b 80c
89a 90b
99 100a
37 85 16 51
4 62 47
Plan: Develop cyclically the following 10
initial blocks:
63 95 59 11 42
90 29 77 43
78 87 24 36
51 8 34 92 15
69 23 42 10 98
78 85 60
21
99 13
93 18 31
6
77 60
24 69 45
55 39 21
72 7 100 84
68
86 93
7 12 80
26 49 68 77
11 35 69 43 26
32 85 14 53
1
16 57 84 32
8 45 99 80 63
25,
47 74 6 98 22 70 53 35 89
using cycles of length 10 and cycling
within the ten subsets of treatments 1-10,
11-20, 21-30, 31-40, 41-50, 51-60, 61-70,
71-80, 81-90, and 91-100. Each position
within blocks contains a replication.
Design LS135:v =
ni
=
8,
n2
3 4
12
P₁ [ 3
=
C₁ = 38/65, c₂ = 11/65, H:
==
E₁ = .96, E,
=
Solution:
=
.92, E = .93
2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: A D(3), Speckman (1970)
Association Scheme:
Plan:
L₂(5)
r = 8,
k = 10, b = 20
2111-∞~~~~~~~345.
4 6
4
8 9 10 11
Design LS136:v
=
=
332
r = 10, k 10, b = 36
25, A
36,
n₁ = 10, n,
c, = 45/112, c₂
4
=
P. { + 25]
20
=
4, λε
=
P₂ = [ 28 ]
16
=
5/28, H = 18, A
=
2016/25
E, .94, E, = .92, E = .92
=
Solution: Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Association Scheme: L,(6)
Plan:
5
6966
5555
4443330
3322229
= 26
8
7 13 19 25 31
14 20 26 32
9 15 21 27 33
6 10
16 22 28 34
11
17 23 29 35
5
12
18 24 30 36
12
1 13 19 25 31
7
9 10 11
12
2
14 20 26 32
7 8
∞∞∞
7 8 10 11
12
3 15 21 27 33
9 11
12
4 16 22 28 34
7 8 9
10
12
7 8 9 10 11
7 14 15
16
8 13 15
16
17
9 13 14 16
5 17 23 29 35
6 18 24 30 36
17 18 19 25 31
18 20 26 32
17 18 21 27 33
4 10 13 14 15
17
18 22 28 34
5 11 13 14
15
16
18
23 29 35
16, A₁
=
P
2
=
=
5, λ₂ 2
2
[ ² 9]
6 12 13
14 15
16
17 24 30 36
1
7 13 20
21
22
23 24 25 31
2
8 14
3
9 15 19
20
29/2, A = 52
19 21 22 23 24 26 32
23 24 27 33
4 10 16 19 20 21 23 24 28 34
22
5 11 17
19
20
21
22 24 29 35
6 12 18 19 20
21
22 23 30 36
1
7 13 19 26 27 28 29 30 31
2
8 14 20 25 27 28 29 30 32
3
9 15 21
25
26 28 29 30 33
4 10 16 22 25
26 27 29 30 34
5 11 17 23
25
26 27 28 30 35
11111
6
16 17
33838
22727
9 10 11
12 13 14 15 16
4 5 6
7 8 9 10
6 12 18 24 25 26 27 28 29 36
4 5 21
33883
22772
11611
9 10 16
17 18 19 20
9 10 21 22 23 24 25
11 12 13 14 15 21 22 23 24 25
222 222
23 24 25
1
7 13 19 25 32 33 34 35 36
12 13 14 15
2
8 14 20 26
31 33 34 35 36
17 18 19 20
3 9 15 21 27 31 32 34 35 36
19 20 21 22 23 24 25
4 10
16 22 28
31 32 33 35 36
5 11 17 23 29
31 32 33 34 36
4 5 11 12 13 14 15
6 12 18 24 30
31 32 33 34 35
4 5 16 17 18 19 20
286
\n--- PAGE 00000299 ---\nTABLE XIII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes - Continued
Design LS137:v
=
=
100, r =
81, A
2,
k =
C₁ =
ni
Pi
1/10, c, =
E₁ = .91, E,
18, n
8 9
72
=
=
10, b = 20
1,
16
=
P₁ = [214]
-4/5, H= 3, A = 2
=
.83, E
= .85
Solution: Unique; affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design SR17
Association Scheme: L,(10)
Plan: To construct, use
Set 10.1 once
Set 10.2 once
= 18
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS138:v = 100, r = 3,
c =
1
1/10, C2
n₁ =
=
27, n 72, λι
P, {10 16]
= -7/20, H= 5, A
E,= .91, E₂ = .87, E = .88
Solution:
2
Affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design SR34
Association Scheme: L,(10)
Plan: To construct, use
= 27
k
=
=
64
0
10, b = 30
1, λ, = 0
P‚= [ 6 21]
Р
=
6
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS140:v = 100, r = 4,
k = 10,
b = 40
=
18, n
=
81, A,
=
8 9
72
=
E, .91, E,
=
P₂
1/10, c₂ = -4/5, H= 6, A = 8
=
.83, E = .85
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS137.
Design LS141:v
2, A, = 0
16
= [ 2 ]
64
Association Scheme: L,(10)
CI
=
1/10, C2
Solution:
= 36
=
100, r = 6, k =
10, b = 60
ni
=
27, n
Resolvable
n₁ =
= 54
k = 10, b = 80
63, λ, 2, λε
Set 10.1
once
Set 10.2
once
Set 10.3 once
Each set constitutes a complete
replication.
Design LS139:v = 100, r = 4,
C₁ =
1/10,
ni
=
36, n
=
P, [14 21]
=
42
63, λ,
C: -1/5, H= 7, A
E, .91, E, = .88, E = .89
=
Solution:
Affine resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 36
Dual: Design SR51
Association Scheme: L,(10)
Plan: To construct, use
Set 10.1 once
Set 10.2 once
Set 10.3 once
Set 10.4
once
k
=
=
-
10, b = 40
1, λε 0
12 24
‚= [
P₂
= 12
38
=
=
72, A, 2, λε 0
Pi
P₁-¹016]_P,= [ 6 21]
=
56
-7/20, H= 10, ▲ = 24
E,= .91, E, = .87, E = .88
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(10)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS138.
Design LS142:v = 100, r = 8,
36, n₁ =
=
50
= 0
24
38
P.-[1421] P.-[123]
=
1/10, c, = -1/5, H= 14, A = 48
с
=
E,
=
.91, E,
=
Solution:
.88, E = .89
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(10)
= 72
Plan: Duplicate the plan of LS139.
k = 10, b = 60
18, n
81, A, 3, λε
8 97
Design LS143:v =
n₁ =
100, r = 6,
P
CI
=
1/10, C
=
72
=
= 54
=
P,= [
= 18
= 0
2 16
64
-4/5, H= 9, A
E, 91, E, .83, E = .85
=
=
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(10)
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS137 three times.
287
\n--- PAGE 00000300 ---\nTABLE XIII. Partially balanced designs based on Latin square types of association schemes - Continued
Design LS144:v =
n₁ =
n2
-
100, r = 9, k
27,
-
10, b
=
72, λ,
=
3, λ
=
90
0
56
50
=
6 21
P1016] P.-[20]
=
CI 1/10, c₂ = -7/20, H= 15, A = 54
E,= .91, E,
=
.87, E = .88
=
Solution: Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r 72
Dual:
A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L₂(10)
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS137 four times.
Design LS146:v
ni
Р
= 100, r =
18, n
=
10, k
81, A,
=
10, b 100
=
=
5, λη 0
=
8
=
1
72
P₁ = [216]
2
64
Solution:
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 81
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L,(10)
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS138 three times.
Design LS145:v =
=
CI 1/10, C2
E,= .91, E,
2
ni
=
=
100, r =
8,
k
=
10,
18, n
9
=
P₁ =[ 8 1/2]
72
=
b 80
81, A, 4, λ, = 0
= -4/5, H= 12, A
.83, E = .85
P₁ = [216]
P2
=
32
64
=
1/10, C2
=
-4/5, H= 15, A
= 50
E, .91, E₂ = .83, E = .85
=
Solution:
2
Unique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 90
Dual:
A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: L₂(10)
Plan: Repeat the plan of LS137 five times.
288
\n--- PAGE 00000301 ---\nEfficiencies
Number
Reference
V
number
λε
λ
Unique
TABLE XIV. Partially balanced designs based on the cyclic type of association scheme: parameters and auxiliary information
Dual designs
Literature sources
solution
E₁
Ę, E
of Complementary
solutions
given
design
JNIJI Í JI 885¤ ¤¤
246806
555555
75
83
O453
3333
6aa3
5552
33
69
TRT
2 20
2 2
10 2 25 2
2
2
15
2
2
5
2
20
2
5 10
25
2
2
25
C10
13
2
39
C11
17
2
68
C12
3
5
C13
10
3 15 2 2
C15
9 3 15
C16
13
3 13
C17
13
26
C18
13
39
C19
13 9 3 39
C20
37
111 18 18
C21
13
26
C22
17
34
222~~~~~~~~3
2
2
2
2 10 2 2
2 15 2 2
222222
222682
200 -
123452 34 3112
0
1
1
1
.87
CX128 8 8 8 8 8 8 8
.42
.50
10 Yes
1 C12
TSD, Clatworthy (1971).
.42
.50
20 Yes
1 C13
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
P.M. Roy (1954a) [Clatworthy (1955)].
Clatworthy (1955).
.42
50
30 Yes
1 C14
A D(3) Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1955).
42
.50
40 Yes
1
NL, r=12
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1955).
42 50
50 Yes
1
NL, r=15
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1955).
.57
.61
30 Yes
1
C15
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
54
.59
40 Yes
1
NL, r=12
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
52
58
50❘ Yes
1
NL, r=15
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
60
.62
50 Yes
1
NL, r=15
Irregular.
Clatworthy (1955).
46
.50
78 ?
1
NL, r=33
Not a D(x), x=1,2.
Clatworthy (1955).
.47
.50
136 ?
1
NL, r=60
Not a D(x), x=1,2.
Clatworthy (1955).
.76 .81
15 Yes
1 C1
2226
2
2226
2
234 -
4651
.87
.87
0
1632
.85 81 .83 45 Yes
.72 .62 .67
5586
.76 .81 30 Yes
C2
76 .81 45 Yes
C3
1 C6
39 ?
1 C29
ថ ច ខ ទឹ
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy P.M. Roy (1954) Clatworthy (1956), John
(1971).
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
(1966)).
Clatworthy (1956).
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956).
Irregular.
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy BCS (1954).
Clatworthy (1956).
(1971).
33
334
28 8 ELS
23
.72
0
1
2
-
-
032
.72
.70 .73
.77
.62
.78
ឌឌឌ ង ន ន
62
.67
78 ?
1
NL, r=20
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956).
.67
117 ?
1
NL, r=30
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956).
Sol. 1: not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
Sol. 1: BCS (1954) Design C3.
.72
117 No
2
NL, r-30
Sol. 2: Irregular.
.65 .67
333 ?
1
NL, r=102
Not a D(x), x-1, 2.
83
.80 104 ?
1
NL, r=18
Irregular.
.81 .79 136 ?
1
NL, r=26
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
(Sol. 1: C24,
Sol. 1
C23
13
G
13
9
→
3 2 .91
.89
69
.90 78 No
2
Sol. 2: C24,
Sol. 2
(Sol. 1: C23,
Sol. 1
C24
13
7
7
13
3 .94 .92
.93
30
91 No
2
Sol. 2: C23,
Sol. 2
C25
29
7
7
29 14
14 2
1
.89
.87 .88
203 ?
1 NL, r=22
C26
17
17
-
3
.34
.92
.93
136 ?
1 C28
632939
2
C27
29
29
14
14
3
1
.91 .88 .90
232 ?
1 | NL, r=21
C28
17
9
9
17
8
5
4 .95 .94
.94
115
153 ?
1 C26
13
10
10
13
7.98 97.97 130 ?
1 C16
Sol. 2: John (1966).
BCS (1954) Design C10.
BCS (1954) Design C2 [John (1966)].
BCS (1954) Design C5.
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy Clatworthy (1956).
(1971).
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Chatworthy Liu and Chang (1964) [John (1966)].
(1971).
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy Clatworthy (1956) [John (1966)].
(1971).
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy John (1966).
(1971).
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy BCS (1954), Design C8.
(1971).
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy BCS (1954), Design C6 [Liu and Chang
(1971).
(1964)].
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy | BCS (1954), Design C9.
(1971).
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy BCS (1954), Design C7.
(1971).
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy BCS (1954), Design C4 [John (1966)].
(1971).
289
\n--- PAGE 00000302 ---\nTABLE XV. Partially balanced designs based on the cyclic type association scheme
b = 25
= 0
Design C1:
v = 5,
r = 2,
k
-
ni
n2
=
2,
A,
C₁ =
2/5, c₂ =
=
2,
P₁ = { ° } ]
=
2,
1, λη
b = 5
0
=
P₁ = [ ¹ ¦ ]
2
-2/5, H= 5/2, ▲ = 5/4
E,= .62, E, = .42, E = .50
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design C12
Dual: Truly self dual, Clatworthy (1971)
Association Scheme:
Plan:
C(5)
º¦]
ni
Design C5:
V =
2,
P₁
c₁ = 2/5, c₂
=
r = 10, k
2, A,
n2
-
=
=
P₂ =
2,
5,
-2/5, H= 25/2, ▲ = 125/4
E,= .62, E, = .42, E = .50
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 15
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: C(5)
Plan: Repeat the plan of C1 five times.
λε
34512
12345
Design C2:
v = 5,
ni
=
1
r = 4,
2, n2
0
k = 2,
=
2,
λι
-
2, λε
b
=
=
P₁ = [ ¹ ¦]
2
10
20
CI
=
2/5, Cz
=
-2/5, H= 5, A
E,= .62, E, = .42, E = .50
=
5
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Design C13
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme:
C(5)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of C1.
=
Design C6:
V = 5,
r = 6, k
=
2,
b = 15
=
2,
0
=
2, A,
n2
=
2, A2 1
P₁
P₂
=
C =
26/55, C 2
=
1
= [ ' } ]
14/55, H = 15/2, A = 55/4
E,= .65, E₂ = .57, E = .61
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Design C15
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: C(5)
Plan:
3
4
34512
12345
5
2
12345
34512
12345
2345-
3
1
= 1
6, k
=
2,
b = 15
45/4
Design C3:
V = 5,
n₁ =
c₁ =
2/5, C2
2,
=
n2 2, A,
P₁ ={[ ° } ]
= −2/5, H= 15/2, A
E¸= .62, E¸= .42, E = .50
2
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Design C14
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: C(5)
3, λ. = 0
P₂= [ ¹ ¦]
2
=
Plan: Repeat the plan of C1 three times.
Design C4:
v = 5,
r = 8,
k
=
2,
n2 =
2,
=
λι 4, λε
1
b
=
P₁ = [ ' ¦ ]
2
= 0
20
Design C7:
ni
=
v =
5,
= 2,
=
r = 8, k
n2 2,
=
λι
0
P
P
=
2
C₁ =
46/95, C2
=
=
20
2, b
3, λε 1
1
=
· [ ' /]
14/95, H= 10, A = 95/4
=
E,= .66, E, = .54, E: .59
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: C(5)
Plan:
1
12345
34512
34512
12345
34512
12345
4
2
23451
12345
4
4
5
CI
=
=
ni 2,
=
2/5, Cz
P‚{ ° }]
-2/5, H= 10, A
E,= .62, E₂ = .42, E = .50
2
= 20
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 12
Dual:
A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: C(5)
Plan: Repeat the plan of C1 four times.
290
\n--- PAGE 00000303 ---\nTABLE XV. Partially balanced designs based on the cyclic type of association scheme - Continued
initial blocks:
1
3
1
6
1
7
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 13, the three
v = 5,
r =
=
2, n =
0
2
10, k
2, λι
= 2,
b:
=
25
=
4, λη
=
1
P₂= [ ' '¦]
2
Design C8:
n
P
CI
=
14/29,
=
145/4
2/29, H = 25/2, A
C 1
=
E,= .66, E₂ = .52, E = .58
Solution: Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 15
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: C(5)
Plan:
3
4
5
2
34512
12345
34512
12345
34512
12345
2
23451
12345
34512
123
4
5
2
Each initial block gives rise to two
replications and each position within
blocks to three replications.
Design C11:
V = 17,
r = 8,
k = 2,
b
n₁ =
8,
3
λι
=
CI
=
2/17, C₂
1
P,-{
=
n2
=
41
8,
= 68
=
1, A2 0
4
P₂ = [ ' '}]
-2/17, H= 17/2, A = 17
E,= .53, E, = .47, E = .50
Solution:
2
2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 60
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Association Scheme: C(17)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 17, the four
initial blocks:
1
4
1
6
1
7
1
8
=
155/4
Each initial block gives rise to two
replications and each position within
blocks to four replications.
Design C12:
V = 5,
n₁ = 2, n2
r =
3, k
=
225
Design C9:
C₁ =
Ει
=
v = 5, r =
ni
=
14/31, C 2
2,
01
10, k =
=
2,
2, A, 3, λη
b
=
P₁ ={ ° ¦] _P‚= [ ' }]
Р
=
2
10/31, H = 25/2, ▲
.65, E₂ = .60, E = .62
Solution:
2
Unique; 2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 15
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: C(5)
Plan:
34512
2
4
12345
34512
12345
4
2
3
34512
12345
2345
4
5 1
12345
23451
12345
C₁ =
P
=
=
3,
b = 5
2, λι 2, λε 1
} ] P₁ = [ ¹ ¦ ]
··-[ ° }]
2
39/55, c₂ = 21/55, H= 5, ▲ = 55/9
E, .87, E, = .76, E = .81
=
2
Solution: Unique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design Cl
2
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Association Scheme: C(5)
Design C10:
CI
=
=
2/13, C2
v = 13,
n₁ =
P
=
1
6,
r = 6,
n2
2 3
==
333
6,
λι
k = 2, b = 39
=
1, A2
3
=
P₁ = [ ³ 3]
2
-2/13, H= 13/2, A = 39/4
E, .54, E₂ = .46, E = .50
Solution:
2
2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Association Scheme: C(13)
= 33
2
300
Plan:
45123
2
23451
4
5
12345
Design C13:
CI
=
v =
ni
39/55, C₂
=
ཉྭ་
5, r = 6,
k =
λι
=
4,
2, n 2,
· -[ °
Pi
=
b = 10
= 2
P‚= [ ' ¦]
2
21/55, H= 10, A = 220/9
E,= .87, E, = .76, E
Solution:
= .81
Unique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Design C2
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: C(5)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of C12.
291
\n--- PAGE 00000304 ---\nTABLE XV. Partially balanced designs based on the cyclic type of association scheme - Continued
ni
P
=
P₁ = [ ¹ ¦ ]
Design C14:
v = 5,
2,
r = 9,
k
= 3,
b
=
=
2,
λι
1
0
6, λε
1
=
15
3
1
C(5)
Design C17:
v =
ni
=
13,
6,
r = 6,
n2
=
P₁ =[23]
C 1
=
3/13, C2
=
6, λ1
k =
=
3,
b: 26
=
=
2, λε 0
3 3
P₁ = [ ³ ³]
Р
2
-3/13, H= 26/3, A = 52/3
E,= .72, E, = .62, E
Solution:
= .67
3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 20
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: C(13)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of C16.
C₁ = 39/55, c₂ = 21/55, H= 15, A = 55
E = .87, E₂ = .76, E = .81
2
Solution: Unique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Design C3
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme:
Plan: Repeat the plan of C12 three times.
Design C15: v = 5,
C₁ =
ni
=
Pi
327/505, C2
=
=
r = 9,
k
= 3,
b
=
15
Design C18:
2,
n2
0
2,
λι
=
4
v = 13,
n₁ = 6,
r =
9,
=
k 3,
b = 39
n2 =
6,
λ,
=
3, λ, 0
Р
5, 2
P‚= [ ¹ ¦]
273/505, H = 15, ▲ = 505/9
E= .85, E, .81, E = .83
Solution: Unique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Design C6
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: C(5)
Plan:
1
51234
34512
2345
4
5
1 3
5
1
2
5
2
4
1
2
3
1
3
5
2
3
4
2
4
1
3
4
5
3
5
2
4
5
1 4
P₁ =[23]
C₁ =
3/13, C2
=
=
P₁ = [ 3 3]
2
-3/13, H= 13, A = 39
E,= .72, E, = .62, E = .67
Solution:
3-resolvable
=
Complement: Not listed, r 30
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: C(13)
Plan: Repeat the plan of C16 three times.
Design C19:
v =
13,
r = 9,
k =
3,
b = 39
=
n₁ = 6, n₂ = 6,
Р
P₁ = 2 3]
1
=
λ, 1, λε 2
3
P₁ = [ ³ ³ ]
105/377, H= 13, A =
.73, E = .72
C₁ =
Design C16:
v = 13,
r = 3,
k = 3,
n₁ = 6,
n₂
=
6,
A,
=
1, λη
3 3
b = 13
= 0
E,
=
51/377, C₂
.70, E,
=
=
P,=
92]
3
P.2] P.-[
Pi
3
2
c, 3/13, c -3/13, H= 13/3, ▲ = 13/3
2
=
E,= .72, E, = .62, E = .67
Solution: Nonresolvable
Complement: Design C29
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Association Scheme: C(13)
Plan: 1
9
10
11
123
1
9
2345678
345678PPIDR12
2345678
10
11
9
10
11
R123
Solution 1:
2
377/9
As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 30
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Association Scheme: C(13)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 13, the three
initial blocks:
1 12 13
3 10 13
4 9 13
Each initial block gives rise to three
replications and each position within
blocks to three replications.
Solution 2: As given by John (1966); nonunique;
3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 30
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: C(13)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 13, the three
initial blocks:
1 2 5
1 2 11
1 3 8
Each initial block gives rise to three
replications and each position within
blocks to three replications.
292
\n--- PAGE 00000305 ---\nTABLE XV. Partially balanced designs based on the cyclic type of association scheme - Continued
Design C20:
v = 37,
ni
=
18,
k
=
3,
b
=
1, A2
= 111
0
r = 9,
18, λι
n2
=
P₁ = 89]
P₁ = [ 9 ]
Design C23:
v = 13,
r = 6,
6,
n₁ =
=
n2
k = 6,
6, λ,
=
=
3,
λε
b
13
= 2
3 31
Pi
=
2
E,
=
C₁ =
91, E,
62/117, c₂ =
=
CI
=
3/37,
C 2
=
-3/37, H= 37/3, A
= 37
E,= .69, E₂ = .65, E = .67
Solution:
2
3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 102
Dual: Not a D(x), x =
1, 2
Association Scheme: C(37)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 37, the three
initial blocks:
1 10 26
1 31 34
1 11 37
Each initial block gives rise to three
replications and each position within
blocks to three replications.
Design C21:
v =
13.
n₁ = 6,
r = 8,
n2
==
P₁ = 2 3]
Р
C₁ = 20/221, c₂
=
6,
λι
k
P₂
=
26
1, A2 3
4,
b: =
=
=
[ 3 3 ]
2
=
2
84/221, H= 13, A = 663/16
E,= .77, E₂ = .83, E = .80
2
Solution:
4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme: C(13)
= 18
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 13, the two
initial blocks:
1 4 12 13
1 4 10 13
Each initial block gives rise to four
replications and each position within
blocks to two replications.
Design C22:
v = 17,
n₁ =
8,
r = 8,
k
=
=
=
8, λι
n2
P₁ = 3 4 ]
b = 34
4,
1,
A2
=
4
P₁ = [ * ]
2
c, = 44/323, C₂ = 92/323, H= 51/4, A = 323/8
E₁ = .78, E,
Solution:
.81, E = .79
2
=
4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 26
Dual: Not a D(x), x = = 1, 2, 3
Association Scheme: C(17)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 17, the two
initial blocks:
2 9 11 17
1 4 5 17
Each initial block gives rise to four
replications and each position within
blocks to two replications.
2
P₁ = 2 3]
14/39, H= 65/6, A = 117/4
.89, E = .90
Solution 1: As given by Clatworthy (1956);
nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design C24, Solution 1
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Association Scheme: C(13)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 13, the single
initial block:
1 2 4 7 9 13
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
Solution 2: As given by John (1966); nonunique;
nonresolvable
Complement: Design C24, Solution 2
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Association Scheme: C(13: 1,3,4,9,10,12);
nonstandard
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 13, the single
initial block:
1 2 3 6 10 13
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
Design C24:
=
=
6°
=
=
=
v = 13, r = 7,
k = 7, b 13
6,
λι
=
4, λε 3
P
1
P₂
=
2
413/689, C2
E, .94, E,
=
n2
2 3
3
315/689, H=
.92, E = .93
3
[ ³ 3]
13, A = 2067/49
Solution 1: As given by Clatworthy (1956);
nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design C23, Solution 1
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Association Scheme: C(13)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 13, the single
initial block:
3 5 6 8 10 11 12
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
Solution 2:
Adapted from a solution of John
(1966); nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Design C23, Solution 2
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Association Scheme:
C(13: 1,3,4,9,10,12);
nonstandard
(Plan continued on next page)
293
\n--- PAGE 00000306 ---\nTABLE XV. Partially balanced designs based on the cyclic type of association scheme - Continued
= 21
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Association Scheme: C(29)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 13, the single
initial block:
1 2 4 5 6 8 9
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
Design C25:
v = 29,
r =
7,
n
1
= 14, n =
14, A₁
k = 7,
= 2,
b
λε
6
P
2
Solution: Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
=
553/1885,
=
Pi
=
=
=
[ 7 7]
=
259/1885, H = 87/7, A
C1
=
E, .89, E, .87, E = .88
=
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 22
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Association Scheme: C(29)
29
1
1885/49
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 29, the single
initial block:
1 7 16 20 23 24 25
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
Design C26:
CI
=
V =
ni
=
17,
8,
r = 8,
n2
=
P₁ [ 34 ]
P,
116/221, c₂
=
8, λι
k
= 8, b = 17
=
4, λ2
4
P₁=[
=
=
43313
3
88/221, H= 119/8, A 221/4
E, .94, E, = .92, E = .93
=
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Design C28
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Association Scheme: C(17)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 17, the single
initial block:
1 2 4 8 9 13 15 16
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
Design C27:
CI
=
V =
29,
r =
8,
k
=
8, b
=
=
3, λη
n₁ = 14, n₁ =
6 7
Р
1144/3335, c₂
=
14, A,
29
= 1
P‚= [ ' }]
2
248/3335, H = 29/2, ▲
E₁ = .91, E, = .88, E = .90
=
3335/64
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 29, the single
initial block:
1 2 8 17 21 24 25 26
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
Design C28:
=
v = 17,
ni
=
8,
r = 9, k = 9, b 17
n2
=
P₁[ 34 ]
423/731, c₂
=
8,
λι
=
5, λε
4
= 4
P₁ = [ * ]
342/731, H= 17, Δ =
5848/81
E, .95, E, = .94, E = .94
=
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Design C26
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Association Scheme: C(17)
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 17, the single
initial block:
35 6 7 10 11 12 14 17
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
Design C29:
CI
=
y =
13,
ni = 6,
7730/9503,
r = 10, k =
=
=
6, λ₁
n:
2
10, b = 13
=
8, A₂ 7
3
P‚ -{ ² 3] P‚= [ ³ 3]
=
C2 6830/9503,
H = 39/2,
A = 9503/100 E,= .98, E, = .97, E = .97
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Design C16
2
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Association Scheme: C(13)
2
Plan: Cyclically develop, modulo 13, the single
initial block:
2 4 5 6 7 8 10 11 12 13
Each position within blocks contains a
replication.
294
\n--- PAGE 00000307 ---\nReference V
number
TABLE XVI. Partially balanced designs based on partial geometries: parameters and auxiliary information
01
2
λι
14
N=1 Unique
solution
Number
of solutions
given
Complementary
design
E₁
E
Efficiencies
E₁
யீ
Dual designs
Literature sources
PG1
15 3 3 15 6
810
.71 .63
.66
60
45 ?
1 | NL, r=12
TSD, Bose and Clatworthy (1955) and❘ Seiden (1961), Ray-Chaudhuri (1962).
Clatworthy (1971).
PG2
27
PG3 40
PG4
45
PG5
45
PG6
85 5
†PG6a
165
345 10 10 5
543
59
45 10
40
27
63
28
85 20
297 36
CERER
12
12
128
ZITKNT
16
69
64
66
135 ?
27
.73
160 ?
NL, r=40
NL, r=36
PG4.
BCS (1954), Design SI. 7.
SD, Bose and Clatworthy (1955).
BCS (1954), Design Sl. 12.
32
0 82
.75 .77
135 ?
1 NL, r=24
PG2.
16
0 .82
.79 .81
315 ?
NL, r=56
64
0 .81 .77
.78 425 ?
1
NL, r=80
.80 .79
.79 1485 ?
1
NL, r=288
PG7
26 3
13 15
110
1
0
.87 .81 .84
78 No
2 NL, k=20
NL, r=40
PG10.
SD, Bose and Clatworthy (1955).
PG13a.
(Sol. 1: the difference set solution for the
BIB design (13, 26, 6, 3, 1) Shrikhande
(1952) and Roy and Laha (1956).
Sol. 2: the BIB design (13, 26, 6, 3, 1)
as given by Henderson (1964). Also
Shrikhande (1952) and Roy and Laha
(1956).
SD, Bose and Clatworthy (1955).
The BIB design (15, 35, 7, 3, 1) which is
known to have 80 distinct solutions.
PG5.
BCS (1954), Design Sl. 14.
Shrikhande (1965).
BCS (1954), Design Sl. 26 (corrected).
Benson (1966).
BCS (1954) Design SI. 4.
| Clatworthy, new.
Clatworthy (1954).
BCS (1954) Design Sl. 9.
Seiden (1961).
The BIB design (25, 50, 8, 4, 1) for which BCS (1954), Design SI. 17.
the uniqueness is unsettled.
The BIB design (19, 57, 9, 3, 1) known to BCS (1954), Design Sl. 18 (corrected).
have at least two distinct solutions.
The BIB design (28, 63, 9, 4, 1) which
has recently been discovered to have
at least two nonisomorphic solutions.
PG 6a.
The BIB design (21, 70, 10, 3, 1) known
to have at least 8 distinct solutions.
Shrikhande (1952), and Bose (1960).
Sol. 1: BCS (1954), Design Sl. 21.
Sol. 2: Seiden (1961).
Benson (1966).
BCS (1954), Design Sl. 22.
The BIB design (41, 82, 10, 5, 1) for BCS (1954), Design Sl. 25.
which the uniqueness is unsettled.
+PG8
PG9
35555565
PG10 63
195
PG11 50
156 30
300
555555
19
63
125
115
7 15 18 16
45 30 32
425
220
220
0
.84 .81 .82 936 ?
1
0
.88 .83 .86 105 No
88865
1
NL, r=150
1 | NL, r=12
0
.87
.84
25 28 21
1
0 .89 .86
95
86
315?
.88
200 ?
1 NL, r=21
PG12 57 3
19
24
2
32 1 0 .90 .86
88
171❘ No
1 NL, r=16
PG13
3333
63
49
28 32 30 1
0 .90 .88
.89
69
252 No
2 NL, r=24
+PG13a 297
PG14 70
5
53
3 10 21 27
6655
9 165 40
22
256
23906
0 .89 .87
42
0
888888
8888
.87 1485 ?
1
NL, r=160
.91 .88 .89 210 No
1
NL, F-18
PG15 82 5 10 41
45
365
10
.91 .89 .90
410 ?
1 NL, r=36
†Plan not verified by computer.
295
\n--- PAGE 00000308 ---\nTABLE XVII. Partially balanced designs based on partial geometrics
Design PG1:
CI
=
v = 15,
6,
ni
1/5, C2
E,= .71, E,=
Solution:
2
=
k = 3,
1, λε
r = 3,
=
8,
A,
=
n2
1
P₁ =[ ¹ 4]
1
b
=
15
0
3 3
=
P,= [ ³ ³]
-1/5, H= 14/3, A = 5
=
.63, E = .66
Nonresolvable
Design PG3:
V = 40, r = 4,
12, n₁ =
k
= 4,
b
= 40
27, λ,
= 1, λα
= 0
90
P₁ =
2
₁ = [
4 8
18
ni
=
P. 29]
{
Pi
18
-1/5, H= 13/2, ▲ = 10
E,= .77, E, = .71, E = .73
Complement: Not listed, r
= 36
Dual: Self dual, Bose and Clatworthy (1955)
=
1/10, C2
=
Complement: Not listed, r
= 12
Dual: Truly self dual, Bose and Clatworthy
(1955) and Clatworthy (1971)
Plan:
4
1
1
9
2
10
868
5
2
6 12
14
5
7514123;
3
4
13
15
3
6
11
7
15
7
14
12
8
15
10
12
13
8
10 9 14
13
11
9
Design PG2:
E
1
=
=
1/9,
C 2
.69, E,
Solution:
2
v = 27,
n₁ =
=
=
10, n
1
r = 5,
=
P‚{ ¹ 8]
16, λ,
-1/9, H= 8, A
.64, E = .66
Resolvable
k
= 3,
1, λε
b = 45
P₁ = [ 5,8]
=
15
Complement: Not listed, r = 40
Dual: Design PG4
10
0
Plan: 1 2 3
1 4 5
167
4 18 26
2 12 13
2 14 15
5
17 25
3 20 21
3 22 23
6 15 20
6 16 27
4 16 24
7 14 21
7 19 24
5 19 27
8
13 24
8 18 23
8 17 20
9 19 22
9 15 26
9 12 25
10 16 23
10 14 25
10 13 26
11 12 27
11 17 22
11 18 21
1 8 9
1 10 11
2 16 17
2 18 19
3 26 27
3 24 25
4 14 22
4 12 20
5 13 21
5 15 23
6 18 25
6 13 22
7 12 23
7 17 26
10 19 20
8 14 27
11 15 24
9 16 21
Plan:
26
55212322RRIE
6
71
1
1
24
33
8
5
13
4 10
12
27 17 37 6
6
18
20
7
31
7 30
14
18 3
19 14 21 4
11 15 36 30
35 15 31
8
13 37 29 15
16
L-45322228428
14 16
25
29 26
32
31
23
11
30 28
9
39 11
5
38 13
28
37
19 6 36
25
21
39
36
29 40 7
35 32
22
40 36
2 20 17
14
34 31
2222222222222
9 39 16 26
16 38 27 10
24 40 17 12
25
25
32 4 39 37
33 27 11 21
22 12 26 33
28 20 33 13
17 9 30 34
40
10
122344KTOE∞
2
27
23
18
24
8
9
35
10 20
38
3
19
34 18 29
Design PG4:
CI
=
1/9,
v = 45, r = 3,
n, = 12, n,
=
k
32, A,
=
=
Р
=
P₁ = 3,28]
24
5, b = 27
=
1, λε 0
9
P₁ = [ 322]
2
C 2 -1/3, H= 24/5, ▲ = 27/5
E,= .82, E₂ = .75, E = .77
Solution:
2
Nonresolvable
= 24
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design PG2
Plan: 1 2 3 4 5
1 6 7 8 9
1 10 11 12 13
2 14 15 16 17
2 18 19 20 21
3 22 23 24 25
3 26 27 28 29
4 30 31 32 33
4 34 35 36 37
5 38 39 40 41
5 42 43 44 45
6 14 29 37 45
6 18 23 31 39
7 15 28 33 41
34 38
7 19 22 35 43
8 16 24 36 40
8 20 27 30 42
9 17
9 21
10 14 22 30 38
10 18 28 36 44
11 15 23 34 42
11 19 29 32 40
12 16 26 31 43
12 20 25 37 41
13 17 27 35 39
13 21 24 33 45
25 32 44
26
296
\n--- PAGE 00000309 ---\nTABLE XVII. Partially balanced designs based on partial geometrics - Continued
Design PG5:
C₁ =
v = 45,
n₁ =
[= 7,
k
=
5,
28, n
=
=
16, A₁ 1, λη
b = 63
= 0
P.
P₁ = 15 12]
P₁ = [ 21 ]]
2
-1/27, H= 62/5, A = 189/5
1/9, C
=
=
.79, E = .81
E,= .82, E,
Complement: Not listed, r = 56
Dual: Design PG10
Plan: The plan may be obtained by dualizing the
plan for design PG10.
Design PG6:
y = 85,
r = 5,
k = 5,
b = 85
=
20, n, = 64,
λ,
=
1, λε
= 0
P.
₂ = [ 5 1983]
48
15
=
ni
P₁ = 318]
-3/17, H= 42/5, A = 17
= .77, E = .78
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Self dual, Bose and Clatworthy (1955)
=
1/17, C 2 =
E, .81, E,
= 80
k = 5,
=
Design PG6a: v = 165, r = 9,
n₁ =
36, n₂ =
b = 297
128,
A₁ 1, λε
= 0
3 32
96
2
P₁ = [ 927]
C₁ =
Pi
=
100
1/33, C 2 -1/11, H= 78/5, ▲ = 297/5
E, .80, E, = .79, E = .79
=
Complement: Not listed, r = 288
Dual: PG13a
Plan: Since this design is rather large
(N = vr = 1485) no construction is given.
The interested reader is referred to
Benson (1966).
Design PG7:
==
CI 3/13,
v = 26, ,= 3,
n₁ = 15, n,
6
=
P₁ = 8 ;]
Р
=
13
= 0
k
=
10, λι
=
6, b:
1, λε
=
[ 9 9]
13/2
Pi
=
C 1 -2/13, H= 31/6, ▲ =
E,= .87, E, = .81, E = .84
2
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, k = 20
Dual: The difference set solution for the BIB
design (13,26,6,3,1), Shrikhande (1952)
and Roy and Laha (1956).
Plan: 1 2 3 4 5
11 31 50 68 77
1 6 7 8 9
11 27 46 56 73
1 10 11 12 13
1
1
14 15
18 19
2 26 27
2 30 31
2 34 35
3 38 39
3 42 43 44 45
3 46 47 48 49
3 50 51 52 53
4 54 55 56 57
4 58 59 60 61
16 17
20 21
2 22 23 24 25
28 29
32 33
36 37
40 41
12 25 41 62 84
12 33 53 66 76
12 37 45 58 80
12 29 49 54 72
13 24 40 65 82
13 36 44 61 78
13 28 48 57 70
Plan:
1 22 6 23 12 26
2 23
7 24
13 14
13 32 52 69 74
3 24
8 25
1 15
14 22
44 68 72
4 25
9 26
2 16
14 26
14 30 48 64 80
14 34 40 56 76
52 60 84
5 26
10 14
3 17
6 14
11 15
4 18
15
12 16
5 19
15 23 45 67 70
8 16
13
17
6 20
4 62 63 64 65
15 27 53 59 82
9 17
1 18
7 21
4 66 67 68 69
5 70 71 72 73
5 74 75 76 77
5 78 79 80 81
5 82 83 84 85
6 22 46 58 74
6 26 38 66 78
6 30 42 54 82
6 34 50 62 70
7 27 39 69 80
7 23 47 61 76
7 35 51 65 72
7 31 43 57 84
8 29 40 67 81
8 37 52 63 73
8 25 48 59 77
8 33 44 55 85
9 24 49 60 75
9 36 53 64 71
15 31 49 63 78
10 18
2 19
8 22
15 35 41 55 74
11 19
3 20
9 23
16 25 42 69 71
16 33 46 65 79
16 37 38 57 75
16 29 50 61 83
17 32 47 62 81
17 28 51 58 85
17 36 39 54 77
17 24 43 66 73
18 22 53 57 81
18 26 45 65 77
18 30 41 61 73
18 34 49 69 85
19 23 52 54 79
19 27 44 62 75
19 31 40 58 71
19 35 48 66 83
20 29 43 64 74
Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, k
=
20
Dual: The BIB design (13,26,6,3,1), as given
by Henderson (1964). Also, Shrikhande
(1952) and Roy and Laha (1956)
12 20
4 21
10 24
13 21
5 22 11 25
2222
Solution 2:
Plan: 1 2 3 4
19 7
9 11 1 7 8 10
13 14 15 16
18 12
20 22
13 21
5 17
10 14
18 24 5 8
9 28 41 68 79
20 33 39 60 70
3 8
17 22
9 32 45 56 83
20 25 51 56 78
21 26
11 19
10 22 39 63 83
20 37 47 68 82
25 23
2 24
10 26 47 55 71
10 30 51 67 75
10 34 43 59 79
11 23 38 64 85
11 35 42 60 81
21 24 50 55 80
21 36 46 67 84
21 28 42 63 76
21 32 38 59 72
4 15
9 23
6 16
12 10
20 25
6 26
581742653302
6
1 12
2
7
23
21
25
14
11
26
9 19
24
297
\n--- PAGE 00000310 ---\nTABLE XVII. Partially balanced designs based on partial geometrics - Continued
Design PG8:
v = 156, r = 6,
k = 6, b:
=
n₁ =
30, n
=
125, A,
=
1, λε
=
156
0
Plan:
1 2
3
4
5 6 7
8
11
9 10
12 13 14
15 16 17
22 23 24
25
18 19 20 21
26 27 28
Pi
c, = 1/26, c₂
=
4 25
100
6 24
P₁ = [180]
-2/13, H= 31/3, A = 26
E,= .84, E, = .81, E = .82
Complement: Not listed, r = 150
Dual: Self dual, Bose and Clatworthy (1955)
Plan: The plan of this design is not worked out
but the necessary theory for its
construction is given by Clatworthy (1954).
Design PG9: V =
CI
E,
=
1/5, C2
= .88, E,
ni
=
=
=
29 30 31 32 33 34 35
36 37 38 39 40 41 42
43 44 45
46 47 48 49
50 51 52
53 54 55 56
57 58 59 60
61
62 63
1 24
32
40
47 55 63
1 10
18 29 37 48 54
1 12 21
26
38 43 58
1
9 20 22 35 51 59
2
16 25 33 48 56 58
r = 3,
16, λ₁
k = 7, b: 15
1, A2 0
2
13 27 35
39 43 53
2 9 15
34 40 44 62
2
3 17 26
34
41
49 51
=
35,
18, n₂
9 8
8
-
=
P₁ = ] P= [9]
P₂ = [ 9 ]
=
-1/5, H= 36/7, ▲ 45/7
.83, E = .86
Solution: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 12
Dual: The BIB design (15,35,7,3,1) which is
known to have 80 nonisomorphic solutions.
See Marshall Hall, Jr. and J. D. Swift
(1955) or Cole, White and Cummings (1925).
Plan: 5 2 11 19 18 26 31
1 3 12 20
19 27 32
2
4 13 16
20
28 33
234.
5 14 17 16 29 34
1 15 18 17 30 35
1 10
7 16
24 23 31
2 6
8
17 25 24 32
3 7
9
18 21 25 33
4 8 10
19 22 21 34
5
9
6 20 23 22 35
14 17 24 37 50 61
3 11 22 31 42 48 61
3 13 19 32 36 52 58
3 10 15 23
45
53 63
4
18 27 42
44
52 59
4 10 28 34 38 56 57
4 14 20 23
33 36 47
4
8 17 31
43 55 60
37 45 60
5 19 28 35
5 14 26 29 46 52 62
30 42 55
5 12 15 25
5 11
16 39 47 51 57
6 20 30
38
46 53 61
6
9 25
36 49 54 60
6
11 21
28
32 44 50
6 8 16
27
29 41 63
7 21 23 31
39 54 62
7 12 33
41
45 50 59
7
8 19 22
40 46 56
7 13 18 24 30 49 57
8 23 30 37
44 51 58
9
16 24 31
38 45 52
10
17 25 32 39 46 59
11
18 26 33 40 53 60
6 15 12 21 29 28 31
7 11 13 22 30 29 32
8 12 14 23 26 30 33
9 13 15 24 27 26 34
10 14 11
Design PG10: v =
n₁ =
=
25 28 27
35
63,
r = 5,
k =
32,
1
Pi
2
30, n
=
P₁ =[ 13 16]
1/9, C
E,= .87, E₂ = .84, E = .86
-1/9, H= 62/7, A
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design PG5
= 40
=
7,
1, λη
b
= 45
=
= [ 15 158]
= 135/7
16
05
12 19 27 34 47 54 61
13 20 28 41 48 55 62
14 21 35 42 49 56 63
22 29 36 43 50 57
15
Design PG11: v = 50,
= J
4.
k
n₁ =
28, n₂ =
21, A,
1
P₁ = 15 12]
=
-
8,
"
b = 25
= 0
P₁ = [ 16 12]
=
c₁ = 4/25, c₂ = -3/25, H= 57/8, A 25/2
E,
=
=
.89, E, .86, E = .88
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 21
Dual: The BIB design (25,50,8,4,1) for which
the question of uniqueness is unsettled.
See Clatworthy, Lewyckyj and Martino (1971).
(Plan continued on next page)
298
\n--- PAGE 00000311 ---\nTABLE XVII. Partially balanced designs based on partial geometrics - Continued
Plan: Cyclically develop the following five
initial blocks
1 26 5 39 10
45
23 29
6 31 10 44
15
50
3 34
11 36 15
49
20
30
8 39
16 41 20 29
25
35
13
44
21 46 25 34 5 40 18 49
using cycles of length 5 and cycling
within the ten subsets of treatments 1-5,
6-10, 11-15, 16-20, 21-25, 26-30, 31-35,
36-40, 41-45, and 46-50. Pairs of columns
provide a complete replication.
Plan:
19 3 15
20 1 13
21 2 14
6 18
2 17 52 59 49 63
3 18 53 60 50 61
1 16 54 58 51 62
5 11 46 62 52 57
23 4 16 6 12 47 63 53 55
54 56
14 49 56 46 60
24 5 17 4 10 48 61
25 9 12
26
7 10
27
48974
15 50 57
47 58
8 11 7 13 51 55 48 59
18 30 42 29 44
8 15 5 16 28 40 30 45
6 17 29 41 28 43
19 7 14
20
21
9 13
1 17
7
12 33 45 32 38
Design PG12: v= 57,
=
r = 3,
24, n₂ = 32, A
k = 9, b = 19
23
2
18
8 10
31 43 33 39
=
1, λε
=
0
24
3 16
9
11
121
P₂
=
=
[ 9 15]
25
4 11
1
26 5 12
2
C 1
Ei
=
=
C 2
3/19,
.90, E2
ni
Pi
=
=
11 12
20
-5/19, H= 46/9, ▲ = 19/3
.86, E = .88
Solution: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 16
Dual: The BIB design (19,57,9,3,1) which is
known to have at least two nonisomorphic
solutions. See Clatworthy, Lewyckyj and
Martino (1971).
Plan: Cyclically develop the initial block
1 20 39 14 38 56 10 27 53
using cycles of length 19 and cycling
within the three subsets of treatments
1-19, 20-38, and 39-57. Counting from
the left (or the right), each triple of
columns provides a replication.
Design PG13: v = 63,
n₁ =
32, n
16 15
=
30, A1
P₂ = [ 16 16
2
2222222222222****2222222222
27 6 10 3
19 34 41 31
20 35 42 32
21 36 40 33
22 28 44
34
23 29 45 35
24 30 43
36
25 31 38 28
26 32 39 29
27 33 37 30
32 44 31 37
15 36 39 35 41
13 34 37 36 42
14 35 38 34 40
45 48 60 47 62
43 46 58 48 63
44 47 59 46 61
39 51 63 50 56
37 49 61 51 57
38 50 62 49 55
42 54 57 53 59
40 52 55 54 60
41 53 56 52 58
19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27
Solution 2:
Seiden's (1961) geometric construction;
nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 24
Dual: The BIB design (28,63,9,4,1) which has
recently been discovered to have at least
two nonisomorphic solutions
C₁ =
1/7, Cz
=
30 36 45 56 62
r =
4,
k
=
9,
=
1, λε
=
b = 28
0
Plan:
1
1
13
Pi
15
-1/7, H= 64/9, A =
112/9
8 15 28 33 39 49 52 61
14 19 25
1 13 16 23
31 41 44 53 57
34 42 46 50 60
1 11 17 27
2
8 20 26
2
12 18 28
2 11 19 23
=
E, .90, E₂ = .88, E = .89
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 24
Dual: The BIB design (28,63,9,4,1) which has
recently been discovered to have at least
two nonisomorphic solutions.
2 10 21 22
25
3
8 18
3 14 16 28
3 12 20 24
27
3
9 21
4 13 21 25
4 12 16 22
4 11 15
32 42 45 54 57
31 36 46 51 63
29 38 49 55 59
30 41 47 52 60
35 38 47 50 62
30 40 43 54 59
29 39 44 56 60
33 37 46 55 57
29 40 45 51 61
32 37 49 53 62
24 35 41 46 54 58
26 30 39 48 50 63
4
9 19
5
8 21 24 34 36 48 53 59
5 13 17 22 33 38 44 54 63
5 10 20 27 31 40 49 50 58
32 41 43 56 61
5 9 18 23
6 14 18 22
34 39 45 55 58
6 13 15 26 31 37 47 56 59
6 12 17 23
35 40 48 52 57
6 10 19 24 33 42 43 51 62
7 14 15 27 32 38 48 51 60
7
11 20 25 34 37 43 52 63
7 10 16 26 35 36 44 55 61
7 9 17 28 29 42 47 53 58
Note: Nonuniqueness was established by Morris
Newman of the National Bureau of Standards
who used a computer code which looks at
the Smith normal form of the incidence
matrix of the design (altered to provide
a square matrix).
299
\n--- PAGE 00000312 ---\nTABLE XVII. Partially balanced designs based on partial geometrics - Continued
Design PG13a:v
C₁ = 1/33, C2
E₁ = .89, E,
ni
= 297, r =
=
.6
b
-
165
=
0
=
1, A2
5 35
=
40, n₂ =
5,
256, λ,
k
7 32
P₁ = [
220
55/3
P. 224]
-7/33, H= 26/3, ▲ =
=
=
.87, E = .87
Complement: Not listed, r = 160
Dual: PG6a
(N =
Plan: Since this design is rather large
vr = 1485) no construction is given.
The interested reader is referred to
Benson (1966).
27,
n2
10,
Design PG14: v =
70,
r =
n₁ =
=
3,
42, A,
k =
b
=
21
=
1, λε
=
0
P,
c₁ =
1/7, C
=
E₁ =
P.-[1214]
28
18
P₁ = [ 928]
2
-2/7, H= 51/10, ▲ = 63/10
= .91, E, = .88, E = .89
Solution:
Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 18
23
Dual: A BIB design with parameters (21,70,10,3,1)*
Plan: Cyclically develop the following three
initial blocks
1 14 9 20 17 26 25 50 57 64
1 8 15 22 35 30 41 38 47 46
1 29 36 43 56 51 62 59 68 67
using cycles of length 7 and cycling
within the ten subsets of treatments 1-7,
8-14, 15-21, 22-28, 29-35, 36-42, 43-49,
50-56, 57-63, and 64-70.
*Remark: Bose (1960) has determined that the BIB
design (21,70,10,3,1) has at least 8
different solutions.
Design PG15: v =
=
5/41,
82,
r = 5, k
36, A₁
=
10, b = 41
1, λε
= 0
n₁ = 45, n,
P₁ =[24 20]
=
P₁= [25 20]
2
==
C2 -4/41, H= 91/10, A = 41/2
E,= .91, E₂ = .89, E = .90
=
36
Solution: Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: The BIB design (41,82,10,5,1) for
which the question of uniqueness is not
settled. See Clatworthy, Lewyckyj and
Martino (1971).
Plan: Cyclically develop the initial block
1 77 6 76 27 80 25 64 33 46
using cycles of length 41 and cycling
within the two subsets of treatments 1-41
and 42-82. Counting from the left (or
right) pairs of columns contain a
replication.
300
\n--- PAGE 00000313 ---\nTABLE XVIII. Miscellaneous partially balanced designs: parameters and auxiliary information
Efficiencies
Number
Reference
Number
V
N2
N=vr
Unique
solution
of solutions Complementary design
given
Dual designs
Literature sources
E₁
E₂
E
M1
16
M2
16
66
56
6 2
M3
16
222
2 40
48 6 9
56
5 10
10 2 BO 10
5
0
M4
16 10 2 80
M5 16 9 2 72
22
5
10
5
9
M6 26 10
2 130
10
15
0
M7
27
M8
15
M9
15
M10
556
9
16 3 3
2333
693
10 2 135 10
16
1
6 3
30 6
45
6
16
6
1
X X X X X XFFF
53
.46
.48
53
44
.48
53
48
.51
53 .46
.48
48 .53
.51
52 .47
.49
0 52 .48
.50
0 71 63
.66
0 .71 63
.66
0 .71 59
.63
இககககக
80 ?
1
NL, r=35
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
Clatworthy (1955).
96
No
1
NL, r=42
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
Clatworthy (1955).
160 ?
1
NL, r=70
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
Clatworthy (1955).
160 ?
1
NL, r=70
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
Clatworthy (1955).
144
No
1
NL, r=63
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
260
?
1
NL, r=120
270 ?
1
NL, r=125
Irregular.
Not a D(x), x=1, 2.
90 ?
NL, r=24
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
135 ?
1
NL, r=36
48 No
1
NL, r=13
† M11
16
6 3 32
M12 16 9
3
6
9
9
2
0 .71 59 .63
96 No
2 NL, r=26
3
0
.71
59 .63
144 No
1
NL, r=39
††M13 16 9
3 48 6 9
2
65
71 68
144 No
1
NL, r=39
+M15 35 9
M14 27 10 3 90 10 16
3 105 18 16
64 66
270 ?
1
NL, r=80
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
1
.65
.67
315 ?
1
NL, r=96
†† M153
81 10
3 270 20 60 1
0
68
.65 65
810 ?
1
NL, r=260
++M16
16 3
12 6
0
1
.73
.80 77
48 No
1
NL, k=12
SR26, Solution 2.
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy
(1971).
Sol. 1: a D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
|Sol. 2: Not a D(x), x =1, 2, 3.
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
Clatworthy (1955).
Liu and Chang (1964).
Claworthy (1955).
Derived from Design PG 1.
Derived from Design PG 1.
Bose and Nair (1939), p. 363.
Sol. 1: Derived from Design M10.
Sol. 2: Clatworthy, new.
Derived form Design M 10.
Clatworthy, new.
BCS (1954), Design SI. 8.
Ray-Chaudhuri (1962).
Mesner (1967).
Clatworthy, new.
tt M17
16 6
24
2
.73 .80 .77 96 No
1
NL, r=18
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
++ M18
16
36
3
.73 .80 .77
144 No
1
NL, r=27
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy, new.
Clatworthy, new.
M19 40
M20
8
16 5
8 5
4
80
5
Ся
16
10
21
12 27
22
75
0 .77 .71 .73
320 ?
1
NL, r=72
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
0 .85 .77
.82
80 ?
1
NL, r=11
(1971).
M21 16 10
M22 17 10
5
M23 45 6
555
M24 45
++M25 85 10 5 170
M26 26 6 6
9
СЯ
5
88$ཆཎྜ
32
10
5
34
8
54
12 32
2
12
32
20 64 2
43232
0
.85
2
0
0
.81
26
15 10 2
0
.87
ឌ គ ន ន គ គ
.77
86 .84 .85
0 82 .75
.82 .75 .77
.81
FIKKE B
.82
160 ?
1
NL, r=22
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
170 ?
1
NL, r=24
Not a D(x), x=1, 2, 3.
.77 270 ?
1
NL, r=48
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
BCS (1954), Design Sl. 13.
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy Clatworthy (1956).
Clatworthy (1956).
Preece (1966).
BCS (1956), Design Sl. 15.
405 ?
1
NL, r=72
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
BCS (1956), Design Sl. 16.
.77 .78
850 ?
1
NL, r=160
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
BCS (1956), Design Sl. 27.
.84
156 ?
2
NL, r=20
Sol. 1: S44, Sol. 1.
BCS (1956), Design Sl. 5.
Sol. 2: S44, Sol. 2.
M27 26 9
M28 16 7 7
6 39 15 10
3
0
.87
Sol. 1: S94, Sol. 1.
.81 .84
234 ?
2 NL, r=30
Sol. 2: $94, Sol. 2.
16 6 9
2 .93
.89
880
.91
112 No
1 M34
TSD, Hoffman (1963) and Clatworthy
(1971).
M29 35
M30 35 9
M31 63 10
M31a 16 5
++ M32 16 9
M32a 16 10
7
30 18 16
7 45 18 16
66
3
23
2 0 .88
.83
.86
210 No
1
NL, r=24
$46.
7 90 30 32
0 .88 .83 .86 315 No
0 .87 .84 .86
1
NL, r=36
$95.
630 ?
1
NL, r=80
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
10 5 10
8 18
8
20
5
10
090
132
3 .89 94 .92
80 ?
1
TSC
SR54 Sol. 3.
91
94 .93 144 No
1 TSC
SR100, Solution 2.
89
.94
.92
160 ?
1 TSC
A D(3), Clatworthy (1956).
Derived from Design PG7, Sol. 2.
BCS (1956), Design Sl. 6.
Clatworthy, new.
Liu and Chang (1964).
BCS (1954), Design Sl. 10.
BCS (1954), Design Sl. 11.
Derived from Design PG 10.
Bhagwandas (1968).
Clatworthy, new
Bhagwandas (1968).
301
\n--- PAGE 00000314 ---\nEfficiencies
Number
Reference
number
V
01
λι
λ
E₁ E₂ E
N=W Unique of
solution solutions
given
TABLE XVIII. Miscellaneous partially balanced designs: parameters and auxiliary information—Continued
Dual designs
Literature sources
Complementary
design
M33
50
M34
16
M35
57
M36
57
M37 63
9
††M37a❘ 297
10
9
330
M38 26 10
10
M39 27 10
10
M40 70 6 10 42 27
M41 70 9
10
M42
82 10 10
999
ន ម នដ ៖វីឌ ១៩តម
50
28 21
2
16
6 9
38
24 32
2
57
24 32
56
32 30 2
26232
0 .89 .86 .88
400 ?
1
NL, r=42
$80.
4
.96
.94
.95
144 No
1
M28
TSD, Clatworthy (1971).
0
.90 86 88
342 No
1
NL, r=32
$49.
0
.90 .86 88
513 No
1
NL, r=48
$96.
0
.90 88
.89
504 No
2
NL, r=48
$81, parameter wise.
40
256
2
0
89 87
.87 2970 ?
1
NL, r=320
Clatworthy (1956).
Derived from Design M28.
BCS (1954), Design SI. 19.
BCS (1954), Design Sl. 20 (corrected).
Clatworthy (1956).
Derived from PG 13a.
26
15 10
3
94 .93
.94
260 ?
1
NL, r=16
SD, Hoffman (1963).
Liu (1963).
27
10 16
5 .89
94 .92 270 ?
1
NL, r=17
SD, Hoffman (1963).
Liu (1963).
42
0
.91 88
.89 420 No
1
NL, r=36
$50.
63
27 42
0
.91
82
45 36
2
0
.91 .89 .90
88888
.89
630 No
1
NL, r=54
$97.
820 ?
1 NL, r=72
$124.
BCS (1954), Design Sl. 23.
BCS (1954), Design Sl. 24.
Clatworthy (1956).
+ Plan for M11, Solution 2 not verified by computer.
††Plan not verified by computer.
302
\n--- PAGE 00000315 ---\nTABLE XIX. Miscellaneous partially balanced designs
Plan: 1 8
1
11
9
2 13
2 10
2 11
3
5
3
9
3 14
4 15
4 8
6
9
5
13
6 12
7 12
6 14
10
14
7 15
15
11 16
12 16
13 16
v = 16,
r = 5,
k = 2,
b = 40
n,= 10,
0
A,
=
1, λε
Remark: Compare with design LS3 which has the
same parameters but a nonisomorphic
solution.
Design M1:
C 1
=
1/8, C
E₁ = .53, E,
ni
=
Pi
5,
=
P.- [23]
-3/16, H= 6, A = 8
=
=
.46, E = .48
Resolvable
Solution:
Complement: Not listed, r = 35
Dual: Not a D(x), x =
1, 2
Association Scheme: Type NL,(4) of Mesner
(1967); obtainable from the
plan.
PA452856
12346703
Design M3:
V = 16, r = 10, k = 2,
b = 80
=
10, n, 5, A,
=
1, λε
=
0
Р
P₁ = 6 ³]
P
2
C₁ =
1/8, C
=
=
-1/12, H= 10, ▲ = 24
E,= .53, E, = .48, E = .51
Solution:
2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
= 70
[ 6 ]
Association Scheme: Type NL,(4) of Mesner
(1967), provided the
associate classes are inter-
changed; obtainable from
the plan.
Plan: 1 14
1
8
1 11
1
16
1 15
2 14
2 13
2
4
2
3
3 5
3
9
3 15
1 10
2
7
8
13
3 11
4 6
5 12
4 11
8 14
1234
1 12
2
5
4 13
4 16
5 6
6
4
5
6
7
5 10
7
10
7
4 6
9 16
6
8
8
9
3 16
10 15
7 12
11 13
5 10
6 12
11
12
14
15
12 14
7 11
9 15
14 16
9 13
15
16
7 13
1
9
1 12
8 11
2
12
2 16
8
15
3
6
3
10
9 10
4 10
4
9
Design M2:
v = 16,
6,
k
r =
=
2,
b = 48.
9
14
5 13
5
7
ni
= 6,
Р
n₂ =
9,
=
λι 1, λ
-
0
10
13
7 8
6
11
2 3
=
P₁- [2]
12 16
11 14
8 14
15 16
13 15
CI
=
1/8, C
=
-1/4, H= 6, A
E= .53, E₂ = .44, E = .48
Solution: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
Association Scheme:
= 42
A pseudo Latin square type;
blocks give the association
scheme.
= 8
12356824
7
2 15
1 10
4
2 11
11
3 8
9
4 12
8 10
5 15
13
6 14
16
7 9
10 16
13
16
11 15
36478265
1234590E
13
3 14
9 12
Plan:
12345678
1234567∞
456329E
15
14
16
15
16
13
11
12
10
8
B4341290
12345678
10
11
12
9
16
r = 10, k = 2, b = 80
10, A1
2, A₂ 0
Design M4:
v = 16,
ni
= 5,
n₂ =
1/8, C 2
E,= .53, E,
Solution:
=
=
0 4
P[° ]
-3/16, H= 12, A
.46, E = .48
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 70
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
P₁ = [ 2 3]
= 32
Association Scheme: Same as design M1
Plan: Duplicate the plan of M1.
15
CI
=
14
13
12
9
10
11
14
13
10
16
16
13
15
12 14
1234902
78566345
85675634
12349012
12345678
15
16
13
14
11
15
303
\n--- PAGE 00000316 ---\nTABLE XIX. Miscellaneous partially balanced designs - Continued
Design M5:
y =
n₁ =
P
16,
r = 9,
k
= 2,
b:
=
72
=
9,
λι
=
0,
λη
=
6,
n2
2 31
P.= [24]
= 1/8, H = 10, A:
=
CI -1/16, C2
E,= .48, E, =
.53, E = .51
=
Solution: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Not a D(x), x =
= 63
1, 2
2
24
1
Association Scheme: A pseudo Latin square type;
12345678
the blocks specify the
association scheme.
required design is repeated twice.
only the 130 distinct blocks.
Design M7:
V =
CI
=
27,
=
r = 10, k 2,
16, λ,
10, n₂ =
n₁ =
2/27, C2
=
1
P‚=[ ¹ 8]
P₂
Retain
= 0
b
=
135
=
1,
2
[
5 5
10
=
-2/27, H= 12, ▲ = 135/4
E,= .52, E₂ = .48, E = .50
Solution:
2
2-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2
=
125
Association Scheme: Obtainable from the plan.
Plan: To construct the b = 135 blocks for the
=
present design first identify the n, 10
first associates for treatment a
(a
=
1,2,...,27) in the design PG2.
Then form blocks of size k
=
2 by pairing
treatment a with each of its first
associates. This produces 270 blocks; we
eliminate the repetitions to obtain the
Plan: 1 9
16
1 13
2 14
2 13
2 12
3 15
14
3
11
4 12
4
15
4 10
5 13
5
10
5 9
6 10
11
6
16
7 11
7 12
7 15
8 16
9
8 14
1
11
1
3
2
4
6
5
7
8
6 8
Design M8:
9 10
9 11
v = 15,
n₁ = 6,
6 14
12
10 12
7 13
13 14
13 15
15 16
==
2 10
3
9
4 16
5 15
8 12
2400024
13579135
14 16
53872165
12469ORD
678545
12349
467834
12350
5 8
9 13
9 14
10 15
9 12
10 11
10 14
12 16
11 16
13 16
11 15
12 13
14
15
Remark: Compare with design LS4 which has the
same parameters but a nonisomorphic
solution.
V = 26, r = 10, k
Design M6:
1
n = 10, n2
3 6
=
b = 135 distinct blocks required for the
plan of design M7.
C₁ =
1/5, C2
=
1
r =
=
= 3, b = 30
k
6,
8,
=
A,
n2
P‚= ¹ 4]
2,
=
λη : 0
3
P₁ = [ 3 ]
2
-1/5, H= 28/3, A = 20
E,= .71, E₂ = .63, E = .66
2
3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Solution:
Dual:
A D(3), WHC (1956)
=
24
Association Scheme: Same as that of PG1
Plan: Duplicate the plan of PG1.
Design M9:
v = 15,
r = 9, k
=
3, b = 45
ni
6,
n2 =
1
8, λι
=
=
2,
b
=
130
15, A₁
=
1, A2
= 0
C₁ =
1/5, C2
4
P₂
=
2
[ ¹ º]
=
P‚=[ ³ ;]
1
CI 1/13, c₂ = -3/26, H= 21/2, A
E,= .52, E₂ = .47, E = .49
Complement: Not listed, r = 120
Dual: Irregular
Association Scheme:
= 26
8
Provided by the plan itself.
Plan: To construct the b
=
130 blocks for the
present design one may proceed according
to the construction technique of Liu and
Chang (1964). Start with a solution for
the design PG7 and for treatment a
10 second associates
1,2,...,26). Then form
identify its n
=
=
in PG7 (a
blocks for the present design by pairing
a with each of its second associates.
This gives 260 blocks, each of size k
but each of the desired blocks for the
=
2,
=
=
3, λ. = 0
3
PP-['
Р
P‚= [ ³ ³]
2
-1/5, H= 14, A = 45
E,= .71, E₂ = .63, E = .66
Solution:
2
3-resolvable
=
Complement: Not listed, r 36
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: Same as that of PG1
Plan: Repeat the plan of PG1 three times.
304
\n--- PAGE 00000317 ---\nTABLE XIX. Miscellaneous partially balanced designs - Continued
Design M10:
r = 3,
v = 16,
n₁ = 6, n,
-
P₁- 2 3]
c, = 3/16, c₂
=
E,= .71, E, =
9,
λι
k
=
3,
b
=
=
λε
16
0
1,
=
P₁ = [24]
-3/8, H= 4, A = 32/9
.59, E = .63
Solution: Nonunique'; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= €13
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Association Scheme:
Plan: 2 7
3 10
4
15
11 14
*Remark:
1859542
13
266831♪
4
11
16
7
12 1
9
4
6
13
1
8
10
16 2
5
10
5
15
7
14
13
11
2
6
3
9
Pseudo Latin square type;
blocks determine the assoc-
iation scheme.
When the associate classes are renamed
this design has the same parameters as
design LS18 which has the L;(4)
association scheme.
Design M11:
v = 16,
n₁ = 6,
r = 6,
n:
k
= 3,
9, A,
=
2, λε
b = 32
= 0
Dual:
of treatments 1, 2, 5 and 6 and their
associate relations shows that the stand-
ardized L,(4) association scheme is
inadequate. The resulting design is M11,
Solution 2 and has a pseudo Latin square
type association scheme where the blocks
provide the association relations between
treatments.
Design M12:
v = 16, r = 9,
k
=
3,
b = 48
ni
=
6,
n
=
9,
=
λι 3, λε 0
=
2
P₁ = 2 3] P,= [ 2 ]
6
C₁ = 3/16, c₂ = -3/8, H= 12, ▲ = 32
= .71, E,
E₁ =
=
.59, E = .63
Solution: Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 39
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: A pseudo Latin square type;
same as for design M10.
Plan: Repeat the plan of M10 three times.
=
k = 3, b = 48
A₁ 0, λε
=
9,
Design M13:
v = 16,
n₁ =
r = 9,
6,
n:
P₁ =
2 31
2
= 2
P₁= [ ² 4]
-3/32, c, 3/16, H= 40/3, A =
E₁ = .65, E,
=3
=
.71, E = .68
Solution: Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 39
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
128/3
Association Scheme: A pseudo Latin square type;
blocks provide the scheme.
Plan: Start with design LS17, Solution 2 and
retain its blocks but interchange the
names of the associate classes.
We now
have a design with the parameters for a
Latin square type L₂(4) design.
However, it is now impossible to describe
the association relations by means of a
4 x 4 array (as may be seen by considering
treatments 1, 2, 5, and 6 only and their
placement in the array). Hence the design
is not a Latin square type but has a
pseudo Latin square association scheme
which is determined from the blocks.
Design M14:
V =
ni
C₁ =
E,
3/16, C₂
=
=
P₁ = 2 3]
=
1
P,= [24]
-3/8, H= 8, A = 128/9
= .71, E, .59, E = .63
Solution 1: Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 26
A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: A pseudo Latin square type;
blocks provide the associa-
tion scheme.
Plan: Duplicate the plan of M10.
Solution 2: Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 26
Dual: Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Association Scheme:
A pseudo-Latin square type;
blocks provide the associa-
tion scheme.
Plan: Start with design LS19, Solution 2 and
interchange the names of the associate
classes but retain the blocks intact. The
resulting design has the parameters for an
L,(4) association scheme but examination
c, = 1/9,
E
=
=
27,
r = 10, k = 3, b = 90
10, n,= 16, λ,
2, A2
= 0
1 81
=
P.-] P.-[51]
8
=
= -1/9, H= 16, ▲ = 60
.69, E,
=
Solution:
.64, E = .66
Resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 80
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: Same as design PG2
Plan: Duplicate the plan of PG2.
10
305
\n--- PAGE 00000318 ---\nTABLE XIX. Miscellaneous partially balanced designs - Continued
Design M15:
18, na
P₁ = [ 9 ]
2
v = 35,
n₁ =
r = 9,
k
= 3,
b
=
=
16, A,
=
1,
λη
=
105
0
9
8
8
=
3/35, C
=
-3/35, H= 12, A
= 35
P
E₁ = .69, E, = .65, E = .67
Solution:
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 96
Association Scheme: Obtainable from the plan
Plan: The necessary theory for the construction
of a plan for this design is given by
Ray-Chaudhuri (1962).
Design M15a: v =
=
ni
Ꮲ
81, r = 10, k = 3,
b = 270
=
20, n
1 18
42
=
60, λ
=
1, λη
= 0
P₁ = [ 6 14 ]
2
45
-7/81, H= 15, A
=
=
.65, E
1/27, c₂
E,= .67, E,
= .65
Complement: Not listed, r
= 260
= 54
Association Scheme: NL,(9) of Mesner (1967)
Plan: The construction of this design was not
attempted since the design is very large
(vr = 810). However, the interested read-
er can find a discussion of this design,
whose association scheme is described as
type NL,(9), in section 3 of Mesner
(1967).
Design M16:
CI
Ei
=
k = 4,
b
= 12
9,
=
A, 0, λ,
=
1
v = 16, r = 3,
n₁ =
P
1
6,
¤
n2
2 3
6
=
-1/8, c, 1/4, H = 5, A
.73, E₂ = .80, E = .77
2
P₂= [ 2 ]
=
6
Solution: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, k
= 12
Dual: Design SR26, Solution 2
Association Scheme: A pseudo Latin square type;
Plan:
the blocks provide the
association scheme.
Start with design LS29, Solution 2 and
interchange the names of the associate
classes but retain the plan intact. The
resulting design has the appropriate
parameters for an L,(4) association
scheme. By examination of the association
relations among treatments 1, 7, 8 and 10
only, it is seen that a 4 x 4 array of
treatment symbols is inadequate to
describe the association relations. How-
ever, the blocks may be used to provide
the association relations (since λ, 0,
λε
=
=
1) and the resulting scheme is
called a pseudo Latin square type scheme.
The present design is nonisomorphic with
design LS36 which has the same parameters.
Design M17:
C₁ =
-1/8,
V = 16,
ni
=
6,
r =
=
P₁ =[ 23 ]
C₂ =
= 6,
9,
λι
P
1/4, H = 10, A =
E,= .73, E, = .80, E = .77
k = 4,
b
Solution: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
= 18
=
=
2
24
0,
= 24
=
λε 2
[24]
Association Scheme: A pseudo Latin square type;
same as for design M16
Plan: Duplicate M16.
Remark: Compare with design LS40 which has the
same parameters but a nonisomorphic
plan.
=
Design M18:
6,
v = 16, r = €9, k
n₁ =
=
4, b = 36
n2
=
9, λι
=
0, λε 3
=
CI
E,
3
P.2] P.-[2]
-
-1/8,
.73, E,
C 2
=
-
6
1/4, H = 15, A
.80, E = .77
=
54
Solution: Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
= = 27
Association Scheme: A pseudo Latin square type;
same as for design M16
Plan: Repeat M16 three times.
Remark: Compare with design LS44 which has the
same parameters but a nonisomorphic
plan.
Design M19:
C₁ =
1/10, C2
E,= .77, E,
Solution:
v =
ni
=
40,
r = 8,
12, n
P₁ =[
Р
=
2 9
18
=
=
27, A,
4
-
0
k
= 4, b = 80
2,
P₂
=
[ +18]
-1/5, H= 13, A = 40
= .71, E = .73
4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 72
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: Same as PG3
Plan: Duplicate the plan of PG3.
306
\n--- PAGE 00000319 ---\nTABLE XIX. Miscellaneous partially balanced designs - Continued
Design M20:
C 1
=
5/16,
C 2
v = 16,
ni
=
=
10, n
r = 5,
k
= 5,
b
5,
入​,
=
2, λε
3
=
P‚-{ 6 ³]
=
6
=
=
P‚= [ ' ¦]
-5/24, H= 8, A =
E, .85, E, .77, E
= .82
Solution: Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual:
= 11
384/25
Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Association Scheme:
Plan:
Type NL, (4) of Mesner
(1967) provided the assoc-
iate classes are inter-
changed; obtainable from
the plan.
5764132
4631124
32110328
21098275534
18975642334
13
13
14
4 9
12
15
5
10
5
15
11
12 6
9
7
16
10 16
6 8
13
8
15 11
16
16
13 14
10
9
12 15
11 14 7 16
16
0
Plan:
7812345645
34567812345
12345678 o
1234ST∞
5 15 16 10
6 16 9 11
8
9
2 12
13 15
1 10
3 13 14 16
2 11
4 14 15 9
3 12
4 13
5
5 14
6
7 9 10 12
6 15
7 8 10 11 13
7 16
8 1 11 12 14
9 13 14 1
10 14 15 2 7
11 15 16 3 8
12 16 9 4 1
6
17 10 13
17 11 14
17 12 15
4 6
5
7
6 8
17 13 16
7
1
17 14 9
8
2
13 9 10 5
14 10 11
15 11 12 7
16 12 13 8
9 11
Design M23:
C₁ =
E,
1/9, Cz
= .82, E,
Solution:
2
123457
17 9 12 3 5
17 15 10 1 3
13
15 17
17 16 11
17 10 12 14
2 4
16
V = 45, r = 6,
12, n
n₁ =
k = 5, b
= 54
32, A
=
2, λη
9
=
22
=
8
=
P.-[324] P.-[32]
=
-1/3, H= 48/5, A = 108/5
= .75, E = .77
3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
= 48
Association Scheme: Same as design PG4
Plan: Duplicate the plan of PG4.
Design M21:
с
=
E,
=
5/16, c
.85, E
Solution:
V =
16,
r =
n₁ =
10, k = 5,
10, n₂ = 5,
P₁ = 6 3]
1
2
A
=
4,
b = 32
λη
=
6
P₁ = [ ' ¦]
2
=
C 2 -5/24, H= 16, ▲ = 1536/25
=
2
.77, E = .82
5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 22
Dual:
A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: Same as design M20
Plan: Duplicate the plan of M20.
Design M22:
C₁ =
=
v =
1
=
17,
8,
r = 10,
8, λι
n₂ =
P₁ =[34]
Р
=
k
=
: 0
32
5,
b
=
34
=
3,
λε
=
4 4
P₁ = [ + ]
Р
2
305/901, c2 205/901, H = 17, A = 1802/25
E, .86, E₂ = .84, E
Solution:
2
= .85
Nonresolvable
= 24
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual:
Not a D(x), x = 1, 2, 3
Association Scheme: Not specified
Design M24:
v = 45, r = 9,
k = 5,
b = 81
32, A, 3, λε
=
= 0
=
1/9, C
n₁ =
=
12, n
8
=
91
P. 323] P.-[32]
P,
24
=
-1/3, H= 72/5, A = 243/5
E,= .82, E, = .75, E = .77
Solution:
3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 72
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: Same as design PG4
Plan: Repeat the plan of PG4 three times.
Design M25:
v =
ni
=
85,
20, n
r =
3 16
P
1
48
C₁ =
1/17, C₂
=
=
10, k
64, λι
22
= 5, b = 170
=
2, A₂ = 0
P,= [ 515]
2
-3/17, H= 84/5, A = 68
E,= .81, E, = .77, E = .78
Solution:
5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 160
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: Same as design PG6
Plan: Duplicate the plan of PG6.
307
\n--- PAGE 00000320 ---\nTABLE XIX. Miscellaneous partially balanced designs - Continued
Design M26:
CI
=
3/13,
C 2
v = 26,
15, n
r = 6,
6
=
P₁ = 8 ]
=
b
26
=
0
k = 6,
10, A1 = 2, A₂
6
P₁ = [ 9 ]
P,
2
-2/13, H= 31/3, A = 26
E, .87, E, = .81, E = .84
=
3
Solution 1: As given by BCS (1954); nonunique;
3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 20
Dual: Design S44, Solution 1
Association Scheme: Same as design PG7
Plan: Cyclically develop the following two
initial blocks
1 22 6 23 12 26
22 1 23 6 26 12
using cycles of length 13 and cycling
within the two subsets of treatments 1-13
and 14-26. Each position within blocks
contains a replication.
Solution 2: Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 20
Dual: Design S44, Solution 2
Association Scheme: Given by the blocks.
Plan:
415
182
2
3
5 6
11
1
7
9 10
16
1
13
14
18
7
2
19
12 17
20 4 13 7 21 22
Plan:
Repeat the plan of PG7, Solution 1 three
times.
Solution 2: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 30
Dual: Design S94, Solution 2
Association Scheme: Given by the blocks.
Plan: Obtain by dualizing Solution 2 for design
S94, or alternatively, repeat the plan
of PG7, Solution 2 three times.
Design M28:
CI
E,
=
=
V =
n₁ =
91/160, c₂
=
16,
r = 7, k
=
7, b 16
9, λ,
n:
=
2
6,
=
37
4, λε
2
=
P₁-[2] P.- [24]
=
=
=
21/80, H= 88/7, A 1920/49
.93, E, .89, E = .91
=
Solution: Nonunique'; nonresolvable
Complement: Design M34
Dual: Truly self dual, Hoffman (1963) and
Clatworthy (1971)
Association Scheme:
12396520
A pseudo Latin square type;
same as M10
8765
12 14 15
21
16
10
12352
13
16
536456
Plan:
10
7
11
5
8 9
14
11
15
10
4 11
13
12
3 9 4
5 10 14
17
20
23
9
2
1 14 16 7
8 5
16
18
24 21
1
13
8
11
14
21
C=2422
34032
22266
3 8 17
25 22
15
4
16
14
9
7
11 14 19 26
8
1 16
5
3
23
11 23 24 25 13
26
16 25
14
5
4
13
1 6
10 9 8
9 15
18
19 20
6
9
26
10
12
12
14 15
7 17 12
13
22
14
23
24 21 18 16 8
17 15
26 19 21
25 13
505220KL2
4
3
1
16
19
4
7
10
5
17
20
5
22 3 8
3 14
11
24
23 11 2
15 23 4
13
6
15 12
1
6
12
13 11
11
7
8
14
5
4
2718
11322
7
2
63
10 15
16
2455
9
0128129
65873210
3
6,
k = 7,
b:
=
2, λε
=
300
30
9 18 26
9 6 16 25
22 12 6
10 26 24
19 20
V =
26,
r = 9,
k
=
6,
10, λ,
Design M27:
n₁ =
15, n₂ =
C 1
=
3/13, C2
=
=
E₁ = .87, E,
==
8 6
=
b = 39
=
3, λ 0
9 6
P‚= [ ' ;]
2
-2/13, H= 31/2, A = 117/2
.81, E = .84
Solution 1: Nonunique; nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
= 30
Dual: Design S94, Solution 1
Association Scheme: Same as design PG7
*Same parameters as LS83
Design M29: v = 35,
=
1/5, C
n₁ = 18,
=
r =
n:
2
9
=
16, λ₁
=
P₁ = 2 8] P‚= [ 9 ]
Pi
2
==
-1/5, H= 72/7, A = 180/7
E,= .88, E, = .83, E = .86
Solution: Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 24
Dual: Design S46
Association Scheme: Same as design PG9
Plan: Duplicate the plan of PG9.
308
\n--- PAGE 00000321 ---\nTABLE XIX. Miscellaneous partially balanced designs – -
Continued
Design M30:
=
1/5, C2
v = 35,
n₁ =
=
P₁
18, n
=
=
r =
9,
k
=
16, A₁
Р
9 8
^"
b = 45
=
3, λε 0
9
P₁ = [ 9 ]
2
-1/5, H= 108/7, ▲ = 405/7
E,= .88, E, = .83, E = .86
2
Solution: Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design S95
= 36
Association Scheme: Same as design PG9
Plan: Repeat the plan of PG9 three times.
Design M31: v = 63,
C 1
=
1/9,
C 2
n₁ =
=
r =
10, k = 7,
b = 90
32, A1
=
2, λη
0
30, n₂ =
16
13 10%)
P₁ = 13
Pi
16
=
P₁ = [ 15 15]
-1/9, H= 124/7, ▲ =
E= .87, E, .84, E = .86
Solution:
=
2
5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
= 80
540/7
Association Scheme: Obtainable from the plan.
Plan: Duplicate the plan of PG10.
5,
Design M31a: v = 16,
n₁ =
r = 5,
10, λι
n,=
k = 8, b
=
10
= 1, λη
3
0
Р
P.° ] P.- [23]
=
²
2
E,
1
Resolvable
= .92
37
==
=
C1 = 1/8, c₂ 9/16, H= 9, A = 20
= .89, E, = .94, E =
Solution:
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Design SR54, Solution 3
Association Scheme: Type NL, (4) of Mesner
(1967); not specified
Plan:
1 2 3 4
5
8
9
10 11 12
13 14 15 16
12
34
78
56
56
43
17
2
2
17
34
78
64
77
9 11 13 15
10 12 14 16
Solution:
Nonunique; resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: Design SR100, Solution 2
Association Scheme: Pseudo Latin square type;
blocks provide the scheme
Plan: Start with design LS99, Solution 2 and
interchange the names of its associate
classes but retain its blocks intact.
The resulting design has parameters appro-
priate for an L₂(4) association scheme,
but a 4x4 array of treatment symbols is
inadequate for a specification of the
association relations between the treat-
ments. Hence the design is classified as
miscellaneous and its association scheme
is called a pseudo Latin square type
association scheme. It is nonisomorphic
with design LS100.
Design M32a:
CI
=
1/8, C
=
v = 16,
n₁ =
5,
r = 10, k = 8,
ni
0 4
= 10, λ,
=
20
b
=
20
2, λε 6
=
2
P] P.- [ 2 ]
= =
9/16, H= 18, A = 80
E₁ = .89, E₂ = .94, E = .92
Solution:
2
Resolvable
Complement: Truly self complementary
Dual: A D(3), WHC (1956)
Association Scheme: Type NL,(4) of Mesner
(1967)
Plan: Duplicate the plan of M31a.
Design M33: v = 50,
n₁ = 28,
r =
nz
=
P₁ =[1512]
1
8,
21, λ.
k
=
8,
b = 50
P₂
2
=
=
=
2, λε = 0
= [ 16 12]
-3/25, H= 57/4, A = 50
.86, E = .88
2
c₁ = 4/25, c₂
=
E
=
.89, E,
Solution:
4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 42
Dual: Design S80
Association Scheme: Same as design PG11
Plan: Duplicate the plan of PG11.
v = 16,
n₁ = 6,
r =
n:
=
P₁23]
P, { ²
9 11
10
14 16
12 13 15
Design M34:
27/40, c
=
2
E₁ =
= .96, E,
=
9 12 13 16
10
11 14 15
9 12 14 15
10 11 13 16
90
78
65
87
56
34
17
2
6
5
5
4 6
Design M32: v = 16,
C₁ =
DI
=
6,
r =
9,
n₂ = 9,
λ,
k
=
8,
=
b = 18
=
3, λη 5
²
P. 23] P.-[2]
{
=
C 1 9/16, H = 17, ▲ = 72
=
11/32,
E,= .91, E₂ = .94, E = .93
2
9.
k = 9,
b = 16
9,
λ = 6, λε 4
-
P₁-[2]
P‚= [ ² 4]
9/20, H = 152/9, ▲ = 640/9
.94, E = .95
Solution: Nonunique'; nonresolvable
Complement: Design M28
Dual: Truly self dual, Clatworthy (1971)
Association Scheme:
Pseudo Latin square type;
same as design M10
(Plan continued on next page)
309
\n--- PAGE 00000322 ---\nTABLE XIX. Miscellaneous partially balanced designs - Continued
4
16
10
3
15
12
1978325
9853
6942
542
163
16
13
11
10
65207845323N
Plan:
2
3
13
6
1
14
14
12 13
9
7
5
53206
15
11
7 1
12
8
14
1
6
10
5
16
14
3
10
11
13
8
15
7
9
12
16
2
4
6
8
12
11
10
15
2 13
4
14
6
12
11
13
9
1 9
10
15
3
4
16
10
16
11
13
21
6281
4
15
13
589336
7
16
6
12
5
10
9
14
11
15
7 14
1
13
12 5
10
6
38
14
16
7
9
4
12
15
14
62
Solution 1: Nonunique; 4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 48
Dual: Design S81, parameterwise
Association Scheme: Same as design PG13,
Solution 1
Plan: Duplicate the plan of PG13, Solution 1.
Note: Nonuniqueness here is due to the fact
that solutions 1 and 2 for design PG13
were shown to be nonisomorphic by Morris
Newman of the National Bureau of Standards
by use of a computer technique.
Solution 2: Nonunique; 4-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 48
Dual: Design S81, parameterwise
Association Scheme: Same as design PG13,
*Same parameters as LS116.
Design M35:
v = 57,
r = 6,
k = 9,
b =
38
32, A₁
2,
λε
=
0
ni
=
24, n
11 12
20
P, { "
=
Pi
=
=
[
9 15
C₁ = 3/19, c₂ = -5/19, H= 92/9, ▲ = 76/3
E,
.90, E, .86, E = .88
=
Solution: Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 32
Dual: Design S49
Association Scheme: Same as design PG12
Plan: Duplicate the plan of PG12.
16
Solution 2
Plan: Duplicate the plan of PG13, Solution 2.
Design M37a: v = 297, r =
10,
k = 9,
=
2, λ, 0
ni
P,
=
40, n,
7 327
=
256, λ,
=
P₁ =
224
[
5 35
220
b = 330
C₁ =
1/33, C₂
=
-7/33, H= 52/3, ▲ = 220/3
E₁ = .89, E, = .87, E = .87
1
Complement: Not listed, r = 320
Plan: Duplicate the plan of PG13a.
Design M38: V = 26, r = 10, k
=
24, n 32, A,
=
=
n₁ = 15, n¸=
8
10, λ₁
=
4, λε
10, b = 26
= 3
2
P₁ = [ 9 ]
6
305/728, c₂ = 115/364, H = 187/10, ▲ =
2184/25
Design M36:
v = 57, r = 9,
k = 9,
b = 57
=
50
=
2
E,
=
.94, E,
=
.93, E = .94
C₁ =
3/19, C
=
11
= 3, A₂
9 15
2.-1] P.-[16]
P
=
{"
20
=
-5/19, H= 46/3, A = 57
E, .90, E, .86, E = .88
=
Solution:
Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design S96
= 48
Association Scheme: Same as design PG12
Plan: Cyclically develop the following three
initial blocks
1 20 39 14 38 56 10 27 53
20 39 1 38 56 14 27 53 10
39 1 20 56 14 38 53 10 27
using cycles of length 19 and cycling
within the three subsets of treatments
1-19, 20-38, and 39-57. Each position
within blocks contains a replication and
each initial block gives rise to three
replications.
Design M37:
v =
n₁ =
1/7, Cz
=
c₁ =
E, .90, E,
Pi
63,
r = 8, k
32, n 30, A
16 15
15
P₂
2
=
9,
=
=
2, λε
b = 56
= 0
[ 16 19]
-1/7, H= 128/9, A = 448/9
.88, E = .89
Solution:
Nonresolvable
= 16
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Self dual, Hoffman (1963)
Association Scheme:
=
The first associates of
treatment a (a 1,2,...,
26) of design M6 are the
2nd associates of the treat-
ment a in the present design.
Plan: Cyclically develop the following two
initial blocks
1 2 5 7 14 15 18 22 25 26
14 16 19 20 2 4 5 10 11 13
using cycles of length 13 and cycling
within the subsets of treatments 1-13 and
14-26. Each initial block gives rise to
five replications and each position within
blocks contains a replication.
310
\n--- PAGE 00000323 ---\nTABLE XIX. Miscellaneous partially balanced designs - Continued
Design M39:
V =
27,
r = 10, k = 10, b = 27
n₁ = 10, n,
1
=
P‚- ¹ 8]
16, A₁
Pi
2
=
1, λη
=
= [515]
10
c, = -2/33, c₂ = 14/33, H = 87/5, A = 297/4
E,= .89, E₂ = .94, E = .92
Solution:
2
Nonresolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 17
Dual: Self dual, Hoffman (1963)
Association Scheme: Same as design PG2 or
Plan:
design M7
5
The method of construction is due to C. W.
Liu (1963) and proceeds as follows.
the association scheme with parameters
v = 27, n₁ = 10, n₂ =
Р
1
1 8
8
P₂
= 16
[ [ 5,5]
2
=
10
From
which may be derived from the blocks of
design M7 of these tables, one forms
blocks corresponding to treatment a
1,2,...,27) which consist of the
(a
=
n, = 10 first associates of a.
Design M40:
1/7, C2
y = 70,
n₁ = 27,
=
r = 6, k =
nz
=
P₁ = 12 184]
28
10, b
=
42, A
=
2, λε
=
9 18
=
P.-[23]
-2/7, H= 51/5, A = 126/5
E,= .91, E,= .88, E = .89
Solution: Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r
Dual: Design S50
Association Scheme:
= 36
Same as design PG14
42
0
Plan: Cyclically develop the following six
initial blocks
1 14 9 20 17 26 25 50 57 64
1 8 15 22 35 30 41 38 47 46
1 29 36 43 56 51 62 59 68 67
26 25 50 57 64 1 14 9 20 17
30 41 38 47 46 1 8 15 22 35
51 62 59 68 67 1 29 36 43 56
using cycles of length 7 and cycling with-
in the ten subsets of treatments 1-7,
8-14, 15-21, 22-28, 29-35, 36-42, 43-49,
50-56, 57-63, and 64-70. The first three
initial blocks give rise to three
replications and the five columns on the
left (right) give rise to three replica-
tions.
Design M41:
=
v = 70, r = 9, k
=
n:
n₁ = 27,
1/7, C2
=
E, .91, E,
=
=
42, A,
=
=
10, b = 63
0
3, λε
9 18
23
P₁ =1214] P,= [228]
28
-2/7, H= 153/10, ▲ = 567/10
= .88, E = .89
Solution: Nonunique; 3-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 54
Dual: Design S97
Association Scheme: Same as design PG14
Plan: Repeat the plan of PG14 three times.
Design M42:
CI
E,
5/41, C2
v =
ni
=
82,
r = 10, k
=
45, n 36, A,
24 201
P₁ = 24 16
=
]
=
=
=
10, b 82
2, λε
= 0
P
=
[25 20]
= 82
-4/41, H= 91/5, A
= .91, E, = .89, E = .90
Solution:
5-resolvable
Complement: Not listed, r = 72
Dual: Design S124
Association Scheme: Same as design PG15
Plan: Duplicate the plan of PG15.
311
\n--- PAGE 00000324 ---\nReferences
Agrawal, H. L. (1965), A note on incomplete block designs. Bull. Calcutta Statist. Assn. 14, 80-83.
Archbold, J. W. (1955), Projective geometry over an algebra. Mathematika 2, 105–115.
Archbold, J. W. and Johnson, N. L. (1956), A method of constructing partially balanced incomplete block designs. Ann. Math. Statist.
27, 624-632.
Banerjee, K. S. (1951), Weighing designs and partially balanced incomplete blocks, Calcutta Statist. Assoc. Bull. 4, 36-38.
Benson, C. T. (1966), A partial geometry (q³+ 1, q² + 1, 1) and corresponding PBIB design. Proc. Amer. Math. Soc. 17, 747–749.
Bhagwandas (1968), Group divisible designs and partial geometries, Calcutta Statist. Assn. Bull. 17, 115–122.
Bose, R. C. (1939), On the construction of balanced incomplete block designs. Annals of Eugenics 9, 353–399.
Bose, R. C. (1960), On a method of constructing Steiner's triple systems. Contributions to Probability and Statistics (Stanford Univer-
sity Press), pp. 133-141.
Bose, R. C. (1963), Strongly regular graphs, partial geometries and partially balanced designs. Pacific J. Math. 13, 389–419.
Bose, R. C. and Connor, W. S. (1952), Combinatorial properties of group divisible incomplete block designs. Ann. Math. Statist. 23,
367-383.
Bose, R. C.
and Nair, K. R. (1939), Partially balanced incomplete block designs. Sankhyā 4, 337–372.
Bose, R. C. and Shimamoto, T. (1952), Classification and analysis of partially balanced incomplete block designs with two associate
classes. J. Amer. Statist. Assn. 47, 151-184.
Bose, R. C., Shrikhande, S. S., and Bhattacharya, K. N. (1953), On the construction of group divisible incomplete block designs. Ann.
Math. Statist. 24, 167-195.
Bose, R. C., Clatworthy, W. H., and Shrikhande, S. S. (1954), Tables of partially balanced designs with two associate classes. North
Carolina Agricultural Experiment Station Technical Bulletin No. 107, Raleigh, N.C.
Bose, R. C., and Clatworthy, W. H. (1955), Some classes of partially balanced designs. Ann. Math. Statist. 26, 212–232.
Bradley, R. A., Walpole, R. E., and Kramer, C. Y. (1960), Intra- and inter-block analysis for factorials in incomplete block designs.
Biometrics 16, 566-581.
Chang, Li-Chien (1959), The uniqueness and nonuniqueness of the triangular association schemes, Science Record, New Series, 3:12,
604-613.
Chang, Li-Chien (1960), Association schemes of partially balanced designs with parameters v=28, n₁ = 12, n₂ = 15, på₁ = 4. Science
Record, New Series, 4:1, 12-18.
Chang, Li-Chien, and Liu, Wan-ru (1964), Incomplete block designs with square parameters for which k≤ 10 and r≤ 10, Scientia
Sinica 13, 1493-1495.
Chang, Li-Chien, Liu, Chang-wen and Liu, Wan-ru (1965), Incomplete block designs with triangular parameters for which k≤ 10 and
r≤ 10. Scientia Sinica 14, 329–338.
Clatworthy, W. H. (1954), A geometrical configuration which is a partially balanced design. Proc. Am. Math. Soc. 5, 47–55.
Clatworthy, W. H. (1955), Partially balanced incomplete block designs with two associate classes and two treatments per block. J. Res.
Nat. Bur. Stand. (U.S.) 54, 177–190 (1955) RP 2579.
Clatworthy, W. H. (1956), Contributions on partially balanced incomplete block designs with two associate classes. Nat. Bur. of Stand.
(U.S.), Appl. Math. Ser. 47, 72 pages.
Clatworthy, W. H. (1967), Some new families of partially balanced designs of the Latin square type and related designs. Technometrics
9, 229-244.
Clatworthy, W. H. (1968), The subclass of balanced incomplete block designs with r=11 replications. Review Internat. Statist. In-
stitute 36:1, 7-11.
Clatworthy, W. H. (1971), On duals of partially balanced designs. (To be submitted to a technical journal.)
Clatworthy, W. H., Lewyckyj, R. J., and Martino, P. (1971), Uniqueness and non-uniqueness among balanced incomplete block designs.
(To be submitted to a technical journal.)
Cochran, W. G., and Cox, G. M. (1957), Experimental Designs, 2nd Edition (John Wiley and Sons, New York).
Cole, F. N. (1922), Kirkman parades, Bull. Amer. Math. Soc. 28, 435-437.
Cole, F. N., White, A. S., and Cummings, L. D. (1925), Complete classification of triad systems on fifteen elements, Memoirs of the
National Academy of Sciences, U.S.A. 14; Second Memoir, 1-89.
Connor, W. S. (1952), Some relations among the blocks of symmetrical group divisible designs, Ann. Math. Statist. 23, 602-609.
Connor, W. S. (1958), The uniqueness of the triangular association scheme, Ann. Math. Statist. 29, 262–266.
Connor, W. S. and Clatworthy, W. H. (1954), Some theorems for partially balanced designs, Ann. Math. Statist. 25, 100–112.
David, H. A. and Wolock, F. W. (1965), Cyclic designs, Ann. Math. Statist. 36, 1526–1534.
Fisher, R. A. (1958), Statistical Methods for Research Workers, 13th edition (Hafner Publishing Co., New York).
312
\n--- PAGE 00000325 ---\nFisher, R. A., and Yates, F. (1938), Statistical Tables for Biological, Agricultural and Medical Research. First edition (Oliver and Boyd,
London).
Fisher, R. A., and Yates, F. (1963), Statistical Tables for Biological, Agricultural and Medical Research. Sixth edition (Oliver and Boyd,
London).
Freeman, G. H. (1957), Some further methods of constructing regular group divisible incomplete block designs, Ann. Math. Statist.
28, 479-487.
Hall, M., Jr. (1967), Combinatorial Theory (Blaisdell Publishing Co., Waltham, Mass.).
Hall, M., Jr., and Swift, J. D. (1955), Determination of Steiner triple systems of order 15, Math. Tables and Other Aids to Computation
9, 146-152.
Hall, M., Jr., Swift, J. D., and Killgrove, R. (1959), On projective planes of order nine, Math. Tables and Other Aids to Computation
13, 233-246.
Hall, M., Jr., Lane, R., and Wales, D. (1970), Designs derived from permutation groups, J. Comb. Theory 8, 12–22.
Hanani, H. (1961), The existence and construction of balanced incomplete block designs, Ann. Math. Statist. 32, 361-386.
Harshbarger, B. (1946), Preliminary report on rectangular lattices, Biometrics Bulletin 2, 115–119.
Harshbarger, B. (1947), Rectangular lattices, Virginia Agricultural Experiment Station Memoir, 1.
Henderson, M. (1964), Generalized finite planes, Colloquium Mathematicum 13:1, 29–36.
Hoffman, A. J. (1960), On the uniqueness of the triangular association scheme, Ann. Math. Statist. 31, 492-497.
Hoffman, A. J. (1963), On the duals of symmetric partially balanced incomplete block designs, Ann. Math. Statist. 34, 528-531.
Ikeda, S. (1967), On a method of construction of group divisible designs, University of North Carolina, Institute of Statistics Mimeo.
Series, No. 521, 18 pages.
John, J. A. (1966), Cyclic incomplete block designs, J. Royal Statist. Soc. 28B, 345-360.
John, J. A., et al. (1972), Cyclic Designs, Nat. Bur. Stand. (U.S.), Appl. Math. Ser. 62, 76 pages.
Kitagawa, T. and Mitome, M. (1955), Tables for the Design of Factorial Experiments (Dover Publications, New York).
Liu, C. (1963), A method of constructing certain symmetrical partially balanced designs, Scientia Sinica 12, 1935–1937.
Liu, C., and Chang, L. (1964), Some PBIB (2) designs induced by association schemes, Scientia Sinica 13, 840-841.
Liu, W., and Chang, L. (1964), Group divisible incomplete block designs with parameters v≤ 10 and r≤ 10, Scientia Sinica 13, 839-840.
Masuyama, M. (1965), Cyclic generation of triangular PBIB designs, Rep. Statist. Appl. Res., Japanese Union of Scientists and Engineers
12, 73-81.
Masuyama, M. (1967), Construction cyclique de blocs incomplets partiellement equilibres, Revue de l'Institute International de
Statistique 35:2, 107-124.
Mesner, D. M. (1967), A new family of partially balanced incomplete block designs with some latin square design properties, Ann. Math.
Statist. 38, 571-581.
Nair, K. R. (1951), Rectangular lattices and partially balanced incomplete block designs, Biometrics 7, 145–154.
Nandi, H. K. (1946a), Enumeration of non-isomorphic solutions of balanced incomplete block designs, Sankhyā 7, 305–312.
Nandi, H. K. (1946b), A further note on non-isomorphic solutions of incomplete block designs, Sankhyā 7, 313–316.
Preece, D. A. (1966), On Addleman's 217-9 resolution V plan. Technometrics 8, 705-707.
Preece, D. A. (1967), Incomplete block designs with v=2k, Sankhyā 29A, 305–316.
Ramakrishnan, C. S. (1956), On the dual of a PBIB design and a new class of designs with two replications, Sankhyā 17, 133–142.
Rao, C. R. (1947), General methods of analysis for incomplete block designs, J. Amer. Statist. Assn. 42, 541–561.
Ray-Chandhuri, D. K. (1962), Application of the geometry of quadrics for constructing PBIB designs, Ann. Math. Statist. 33, 1175-1186.
Ray-Chandhuri, D. K. (1965), Some configurations in finite projective spaces and partially balanced incomplete block designs, Canad.
J. Math. 17, 114–123.
Roy, J. and Laha, R. G. (1956), Classification and analysis of linked block designs, Sankhyā 17, 115–132.
Roy, J. and Laha, R. G. (1957), On partially balanced linked block designs, Ann. Math. Statist. 28, 488–493.
Roy, P. M. (1954a), On the method of inversion in the construction of partially balanced incomplete block designs from the corresponding
BIB designs, Sankhyā 14, 39–52.
Roy, P. M. (1954b), Inversion of incomplete block designs, Calcutta Math. Society Bull. 46, 47–58.
Roy, P. M. (1954c), On the relation between BIB and PBIB designs, J. Indian Soc. Agric. Statist. 6, 30-47.
Rupp, M. (1952), The complete solutions of balanced incomplete block designs with ten or fewer replications, National Bureau of Stand-
ards Report 1896.
Ryser, H. J. (1963), Combinatorial Mathematics, Carus Mathematical Monograph No. 14, The Mathematical Association of America,
(distributed by John Wiley and Sons).
Saraf, W. S. (1961), On the structure and combinatorial properties of certain semi-regular group divisible designs, Sankhyā 23A,
287-296.
Seiden, E. (1961), On a geometrical method of construction of partially balanced designs with two associate classes, Ann. Math. Statist.
32, 1177-1180.
Seiden, E. (1963a), On necessary conditions for the existence of some symmetrical and unsymmetrical triangular PBIB designs and BIB
designs, Ann. Math. Statist. 34, 348–351.
Seiden, E. (1963b), A method of construction of resolvable BIBD, Sankhyā 25A, 393–394.
Shrikhande, S. S. (1951), Designs for two-way elimination of heterogeneity, Ann. Math. Statist. 22, 235–247.
Shrikhande, S. S. (1952), On the dual of some balanced incomplete block designs, Biometrics 8, 66–72.
Shrikhande, S. S. (1959a), On a characterization of the triangular association scheme, Ann. Math. Statist. 30, 39–47.
313
\n--- PAGE 00000326 ---\nShrikhande, S. S. (1959b), The uniqueness of the L2 association scheme, Ann. Math. Statist. 30, 781-798.
Shrikhande, S. S. (1965), On a class of partially balanced incomplete block designs, Ann. Math. Statist. 36, 1807-1814.
Speckman, J. (1970), Private communication.
Sprott, D. A. (1955), Some series of partially balanced incomplete block designs, Canad. J. Math. 7, 369–381.
Sprott, D. A. (1959), A series of symmetrical group divisible incomplete block designs, Ann. Math. Statist. 30, 249–251.
Thompson, H. R. (1956), On a new class of partially balanced incomplete block designs, Calcutta Statist. Assn. Bull. 6, 193–195.
Vartak, M. N. (1955), On an application of the Kronecker product of matrices to statistical designs, Ann. Math. Statist. 26, 420–438.
Yates, F. (1936a), Incomplete randomized blocks, Ann. of Eugenics 7, 121–140.
Yates, F. (1936b), A new method of arranging variety trials involving a large number of varieties, J. Agr. Sci. 26, 424–455.
Yates, F. (1937), A further note on the arrangement of variety trials: quasi latin squares, Ann. of Eugenics 7,319–332.
Youden, W. J. (1937), Use of incomplete block replications in estimating tobacco-mosaic virus, Contributions from Boyce Thompson
Institute 9, 41-48.
Youden, W. J. (1951), Linked blocks: a new class of incomplete block designs, Biometrics 7, 124 (abstract).
314
\n--- PAGE 00000327 ---\nFORM NBS-114A (1-71)
U.S. DEPT. OF COMM.
BIBLIOGRAPHIC DATA
SHEET
4. TITLE AND SUBTITLE
PUBLICATION OR REPORT NO.
2. Gov't Accession
No.
3. Recipient's Accession No.
NBS-AMS-63
Tables of Two-Associate-Class Partially Balanced Designs
7. AUTHOR(S)
Willard H. Clatworthy, Joseph M. Cameron, Janace A. Speckman
9. PERFORMING ORGANIZATION NAME AND ADDRESS
NATIONAL BUREAU OF STANDARDS
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20234
12. Sponsoring Organization Name and Address
National Bureau of Standards
5. Publication Date
May 1973
6. Performing Organization Code
8. Performing Organization
10. Project/Task/Work Unit No.
2050131
11. Contract/Grant No.
13. Type of Report & Period
Covered
Final
14. Sponsoring Agency Code
15. SUPPLEMENTARY NOTES
16. ABSTRACT (A 200-word or less factual summary of most significant information. If document includes a significant
bibliography or literature survey, mention it here.)
This book is a revised and vastly expanded version of the monograph R. C. Bose,
W. H. Clatworthy and S. S. Shrikhande, Tables of Partially Balanced Designs With Two
Associate Classes, Tech. Bul. No. 107 of the North Carolina Agricultural Experiment
Station, Raleigh, North Carolina, 1954.
Approximately 950 combinatorially distinct designs are given, which represents a
doubling of the number of parametric specifications for designs of the original
publication. The introduction includes special instructions to aid analysis using hand
calculations and a section on the general least squares approach for use when the
analysis is to be done on an electronic computer.
For those interested in the construction of the designs, information is provided
on methods of construction and extensive references, including original sources for
the designs, are given. A tabulation of known information about uniqueness,
resolvability and the nature of the corresponding dual and complementary designs is
also included for each design.
Analysis of PBIB designs; Experiment designs; Finite fields; Finite geometries;
17. KEY WORDS (Alphabetical order, separated by semicolons) Finite projective planes; Incidence matrices;
Incomplete block designs, partially balanced; Mathematics; Partially balanced incomplete
block designs; PBIB designs; Statistics; Tables of PBIB designs;
18. AVAILABILITY STATEMENT
UNLIMITED.
19. SECURITY CLASS
(THIS REPORT)
21. NO. OF PAGES
327
FOR OFFICIAL DISTRIBUTION. DO NOT RELEASE
TO NTIS.
UNCL ASSIFIED
20. SECURITY CLASS
(THIS PAGE)
UNCLASSIFIED
22. Price
$3.45
domestic
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1973 OL-461-933
\n--- PAGE 00000328 ---\n\n--- PAGE 00000329 ---\n\n--- PAGE 00000330 ---\nUNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
3 9015 02389 8920
\n--- PAGE 00000331 ---\n
NBS TECHNICAL PUBLICATIONS
PERIODICALS
JOURNAL OF RESEARCH reports National
Bureau of Standards research and development in
physics, mathematics, and chemistry. Comprehensive
scientific papers give complete details of the work,
including laboratory data, experimental procedures,
and theoretical and mathematical analyses. Illustrated
with photographs, drawings, and charts. Includes
listings of other NBS papers as issued.
Published in two sections, available separately:
• Physics and Chemistry (Section A)
Papers of interest primarily to scientists working in
these fields. This section covers a broad range of
physical and chemical research, with major emphasis
on standards of physical measurement, fundamental
constants, and properties of matter. Issued six times
a year. Annual subscription: Domestic, $17.00; For-
eign, $21.25.
• Mathematical Sciences (Section B)
Studies and compilations designed mainly for the
mathematician and theoretical physicist. Topics in
mathematical statistics, theory of experiment design,
numerical analysis, theoretical physics and chemistry,
logical design and programming of computers and
computer systems. Short numerical tables. Issued quar-
terly. Annual subscription: Domestic, $9.00; Foreign,
$11.25.
TECHNICAL NEWS BULLETIN
The best single source of information concerning the
Bureau's measurement, research, developmental, co-
operative, and publication activities, this monthly
publication is designed for the industry-oriented
individual whose daily work involves intimate contact
with science and technology-for engineers, chemists,
physicists, research managers, product-development
managers, and company executives. Includes listing of
all NBS papers as issued. Annual subscription: Do-
mestic, $6.50; Foreign, $8.25.
NONPERIODICALS
Applied Mathematics Series. Mathematical tables,
manuals, and studies.
Building Science Series. Research results, test
methods, and performance criteria of building ma-
terials, components, systems, and structures.
Handbooks. Recommended codes of engineering
and industrial practice (including safety codes) de-
veloped in cooperation with interested industries,
professional organizations, and regulatory bodies.
Special Publications. Proceedings of NBS confer-
ences, bibliographies, annual reports, wall charts,
pamphlets, etc.
Monographs. Major contributions to the technical
literature on various subjects related to the Bureau's
scientific and technical activities.
National Standard Reference Data Series.
NSRDS provides quantitative data on the physical
and chemical properties of materials, compiled from
the world's literature and critically evaluated.
Product Standards. Provide requirements for sizes,
types, quality, and methods for testing various indus-
trial products., These standards are developed co-
operatively with interested Government and industry
groups and provide the basis for common understand-
ing of product characteristics for both buyers and
sellers. Their use is voluntary.
Technical Notes. This series consists of communi-
cations and reports (covering both other-agency and
NBS-sponsored work) of limited or transitory interest.
Federal Information Processing Standards
Publications. This series is the official publication
within the Federal Government for information on
standards adopted and promulgated under the Public
Law 89-306, and Bureau of the Budget Circular A-86
entitled, Standardization of Data Elements and Codes
in Data Systems.
Consumer Information Series. Practical informa-
tion, based on NBS research and experience, cover-
ing areas of interest to the consumer. Easily under-
standable language and illustrations provide useful
background knowledge for shopping in today's tech-
nological marketplace.
BIBLIOGRAPHIC SUBSCRIPTION SERVICES
The following current-awareness and literature-survey bibliographies are issued periodically by the
Bureau:
Cryogenic Data Center Current Awareness Service (Publications and Reports of Interest in Cryogenics).
A literature survey issued weekly. Annual subscription: Domestic, $20.00; foreign, $25.00.
Liquefied Natural Gas. A literature survey issued quarterly. Annual subscription: $20.00.
Superconducting Devices and Materials. A literature survey issued quarterly. Annual subscription: $20.00.
Send subscription orders and remittances for the preceding bibliographic services to the U.S. Department
of Commerce, National Technical Information Service, Springfield, Va. 22151.
Electromagnetic Metrology Current Awareness Service (Abstracts of Selected Articles on Measurement
Techniques and Standards of Electromagnetic Quantities from D-C to Millimeter-Wave Frequencies). Issued
monthly. Annual subscription: $100.00 (Special rates fentia
and subscription order and
remittance to the Electromagnetic Metrology Informat
vision, National Bureau
of Standards, Boulder, Colo. 80302.
Order NBS publications (except B
from: Superintendent of Documents,
ington, D.C. 20402.
Services)
ce, Wash-
\n--- PAGE 00000332 ---\n
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
National Bureau of Standards
Washington, D.C. 20234
OFFICIAL BUSINESS
Penalty for Private Use, $300
POSTAGE AND FEES PAID
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
COM-215
U.S.MAIL
